======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ayrton-senna-giorgio-piola-legacy/4677838/
DATE: 2020

The new collection –  – will breathe new life into these already highly-detailed illustrations, marrying his illustrative work of the past with the modern techniques he employs today.

Speaking freely about his craft, Piola characterizes his time in the paddock as having three distinct chapters – the first of which comprises a time when he would sit at his drawing board for up to 40 days, creating some extremely large and exquisitely detailed cutaway drawings, laying bare the technical detail of the machine he was focused on.

These are pieces of art in their own right and feature techniques that make each aspect of the car jump off the page and tell their own story – such as this fantastic Lotus 72D below...

Lotus 72D 1972 detailed overview

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

Carving out a career that had previously not existed in Formula 1 led to Piola’s stock rising considerably, and he soon found that demand for his illustrative work had accelerated around the world. In order to meet these demands he reacted much like the sport he captures, innovating, adapting and thinking laterally to meet the needs of this new challenge.

During this chapter in his career the fax machine had become the means by which his work would be distributed and meant they could be published before he’d even arrived back from a Grand Prix weekend. This required a cleaner, more simplistic technique, the drawings becoming more like sketches when compared with those that had come before them…

Toleman TG184 1984 rear wings detail

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

The third chapter of his illustrious career began in the mid-’90s, when Piola began to develop the computer-aided techniques he’s continued to develop over the last few decades. This method has allowed him to amalgamate his previous techniques – high detail, highlighting for conveying areas of change or critical focus and a new high level of aesthetic appeal from the rich colorization of the subject matter – such as this amazing Ferrari 2003-GA below.

Ferrari F2003-GA exploded view

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

The four cars that have been painstakingly remastered for this new legacy collection are: the Toleman TG184, Lotus 99T, McLaren MP4/4 and McLaren MP4/5. Click on the arrows below to see how Giorgio has colourized the McLaren...

The original images, all of which were created in the second chapter of Piola’s career, were a little tired and had to be digitally cleaned once scanned. The images still carry their original thicker line DNA too, which adds character to the colorized conversion that might have otherwise been lost had the illustrations been done from scratch. Here are the originals, and the story behind each car...

Toleman TG184 1984 detailed overview

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

The Toleman TG184 was a unique design from Rory Byrne, featuring a tandem rear wing setup that proved to be extremely effective at a rain-soaked Monaco GP. Senna had started down in 13th and produced a wet-weather masterclass, scything his way through the field until he eventually took the lead.

The result was later overturned due to the timing of the red flag that ended the race, but it was a defining moment in the Brazilian’s career and gave the F1 world its first glimpse of a rare talent.

Lotus 99T 1987 detailed side view

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

Senna went on to enjoy success with Lotus and Renault, but it was in '87 – the first year of the Lotus-Honda partnership – that the Senna-Lotus partnership delivered its best results, the Camel-liveried, active suspension-equipped 99T helping Senna to two victories and eight podiums.

McLaren MP4-4 1988 overall view

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

The McLaren MP4/4 was a formidable machine and one that was victorious at every race in 1988, except one. Senna recorded eight victories that season and stood on the podium a further three times, allowing him to collect the most coveted prize in the sport – his first drivers' world championship.

The Steve Nichols-designed MP4/4 carried forth the technology of its forebears, but the influence of Gordon Murray’s lowline design philosophy, first seen at Brabham, was also present. Like the BT55 the drivers were reclined much further in the cockpit than had previously been considered conventional, whilst the V6 turbocharged Honda engine and gearbox also sat as low as possible in order that the team could get the maximum from their aerodynamic package.

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

The MP4/5B helped deliver Senna’s second drivers championship and featured a reworked Honda V10 engine. It was an anecdote regarding Honda’s 10-cylinder engine that Piola recalled when discussing this car, as he had a good relationship with Osamu Goto, Honda’s chief designer (below).

Ayrton Senna, McLaren Honda MP4/5B with Honda engine guru Osamu Goto

Photo by: Sutton Images

He talked about how rumours had been circulating about their V10 engine before the V6 turbocharged engines were banned for 1989. Piola, having bumped into Honda’s Osamu Goto in the morning at the German GP, asked: “How many engines do you have in the test bank, in order that you will be reliable?” Goto looked at Piola, smiled and said: “Possible 4 o’clock” and promptly left.

A bewildered Piola, unable to fathom his response went about his day, until at a certain moment, strolling through the F1 Paddock, Goto appeared again, stopped Piola in his tracks and said: “10, 10 in the test bank” – then disappeared once again!

Looking at his watch, Piola realised what had happened. It was 4pm and while Osamu Goto was the one responsible for the Honda programme in Formula 1, he had waited for permission from Honda in Japan before he could reveal this detail to Piola.

The Legacy collection of fine art prints and posters can be found  –  where you’ll be able to take advantage of a special introductory offer that includes a four poster set when you buy any of the five fine art prints.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ocon-alpine-will-be-very-dangerous-to-f1s-top-teams/6863483/
DATE: 2021

had a slow start to the 2021 season and did most of its scoring in a chaotic Hungarian Grand Prix, which yielded Ocon's maiden F1 win.

After the summer break Alpine suffered from a lack of consistency, but on the good days it managed to score big, notably with Fernando Alonso' podium in Qatar, and definitely defeated midfield rival  to fifth place in the constructors' championship.

Last weekend it nearly added another podium berth with Ocon in the Saudi Arabian Grand Prix. Ocon cycled to the front under the red flag by opting to stay out during the preceding safety car, and after a skirmish between title protagonists  and  he was handed pole for the second restart.

He quickly let both drivers through but nearly managed to hang onto third, with  from keeping the second  of  behind as the Finn drafted past him across the finish line.

Despite his initial disappointment at losing a podium, Ocon says he is happy with how both the car and the team are performing, which he thinks bodes well for 2022 when all teams start with a blank slate.

The Frenchman believes Alpine will be "very dangerous" to its competition if it gets the initial car design right, as the team has shown it can execute on race day.

"It's a bit difficult to swallow for sure, we had that third place until 50 metres to the end so the competitors inside us, they are not happy, but we are happy because we have extended our lead on AlphaTauri for 5th place in the constructor," Ocon said.

"We extract a lot from the car and as Fernando would say it is part of the plan. We are pushing as much as we can and today we got a very strong team result, so pretty pleased with that and very happy for everybody.

"I think it was a very solid weekend on our side. Once we have the same pace as the top cars we are going to be very dangerous."

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB16B, Esteban Ocon, Alpine A521, and Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes W12, battle for the lead

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Alpine's executive director Marcin Budkowski says that the Enstone outfit knows it needs to get its wild inconsistency under control and says it has already been able to apply some lessons in Jeddah.

"Some races this year - Austin comes to mind, Monaco were the two worst looking back, and Mexico - were pretty disappointing and these were races where we really, really poor and in Qatar we were P3," Budkowski told Motorsport.com.

"Everybody suffers from this kind of unreliability a bit but it's important to get it under control because whoever masters that and manages to extract the best out of the package every race will just win massively in consistency in points scoring.

"So, lots of lessons we’re taking from that for next year - some lessons from Qatar we already applied them here - but we need a better grip on that for next year for sure."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/piastri-alpine-rookie-test-drivers/6859263/
DATE: 2021

The test, which uses standard current cars and tyres, will run in parallel with a two-day test for race drivers with the definitive 2022 18-inch tyres.

Although not all teams have officially announced their drivers for the rookie test, a full list has begun to take shape.

Several teams have put a focus on using drivers who have a significant involvement in simulator running, giving them a chance to experience the real car and help with correlation.

Piastri, who is expected to do a lot of sim work next year and currently has no other race programme, will be having his first outing in a current F1 car, having done private tests with an older model at several circuits.

“I’m very excited to drive in the young driver test,” he said. “It’s almost like my first official day in my new job for next year when I become the team’s reserve driver.

“Any day in an F1 car is pretty special but to drive the current one with other drivers on track in a somewhat competitive environment is very cool. Thanks to the team for this opportunity, I’m certainly looking forward to it and working through a very full testing programme on the day.”

Alpine boss Laurent Rossi added: “Oscar has had a fantastic Formula 2 season this year, again showing his class, and this Young Driver Test appearance is well earned.

"This test will be part of Oscar’s ongoing development as he prepares to become the team’s Reserve Driver for 2022, to aid and assist Fernando and Esteban and our development teams on and off the track.”

Perhaps the most significant appearance at the test will be that of Piastri’s erstwhile Alpine colleague Guanyu Zhou, who will be making his first appearance for Alfa Romeo .

Formula E ace Nyck de Vries, who drove for Mercedes in the rookie test last year, will have another outing for the team.

Red Bull is to give two of its youngsters some valuable F1 mileage, with Juri Vips in the senior team and Liam Lawson at AlphaTauri. Helmut Marko confirmed to Motorsport.com that with Alex Albon heading to Williams both men will do a lot of sim running in 2022.

McLaren’s IndyCar star Pato O’Ward will have an outing in the MCL35M, the Mexican having recently enjoyed a run in Mika Hakkinen’s 1998 MP4/13 at Laguna Seca.

Ferrari sim driver Antonio Fuoco, who did the rookie test last year, will represent the Italian team, in part because a new simulator is coming on line soon at Maranello.

, Aston Martin sim driver Nick Yelloly will have his first track experience of the AMR21, having previously had outings in Barcelona with Force India in 2015 and Racing Point in 2019.

Williams has not confirmed its driver for the test yet, but it’s understood that the team hopes to give  his first run, although regular tester Roy Nissany is also available.

Ferrari youngster Robert Shwartzman has .

“At the moment it’s a test because it’s a young driver test,” said team boss Gunther Steiner. “We always discussed that young drivers haven’t got the opportunity to test.

"There is no really big expectation. I think my expectation is that he does a day of running, that we don’t have any mechanical issues, that he doesn’t go off or anything.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ocon-floor-damage-cost-me-in-bottas-podium-battle/6856699/
DATE: 2021

The  driver had been running third behind  and  for much of the Jeddah race, before facing a late challenge from .

Although he managed to stave off his  rival for a while, Ocon ultimately lost a drag race out of the final corner and crossed the finish line just more than one tenth of a second behind.

Speaking about what happened at the end, Ocon said that a drop in performance two laps from home, triggered by part of his floor coming away, what the factor that cost him the most in the end.

“We suddenly lost quite a lot of performance in the last two laps,” he explained.

“There had been quite a lot of contact in that race. In the first start there was some contact with [Yuki] Tsunoda, and then there was the contact with Lewis [Hamilton, at the second restart].

“So we lost a big chunk of the floor two laps from the end, and I was quite a lot slower. I lost quite a lot of my rear grip and I thought it was just my tyre degradation going.

“So I had to use a lot of our battery to keep Valtteri behind. And then, arriving to the flag, we basically derated so we had no hybrid left. That’s why we couldn’t keep him more behind. It's a shame that we lost that performance in the last two laps but we can’t have everything obviously.”

Ocon was handed pole for the second restart, buit said he didn't want to try and keep Hamilton or Verstappen behind

Photo by: Charles Coates /

Ocon’s shot at a podium was made by Alpine electing to keep him out at the first safety car period, which moved him up the order to run fourth when the red flag was called.

He then benefited hugely from the Hamilton/Verstappen moment at Turn 1 of the restart, to eventually be handed the pole spot for the second restart.

Well aware of the championship situation, Ocon did not want to get too involved in fighting the title contenders – but still got caught up in their battle as he tagged Hamilton's front wing.

“I thought they were going to be aggressive with each other, but they hit me as well in the same moment,” he said. “I mean I was expecting it to be a tough fight for sure in the first couple of corners, and I never had the intention of keeping them behind anyway.

“I knew they were going to be a lot faster so I let both of them go. I was not really trying to ruin my time in the race, I was trying to do the fastest time I could, and that was the best way I could do it.

“After that, we needed to keep that third place.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alpine-alonso-and-piastri-wont-face-direct-comparison-for-23-seat/6848876/
DATE: 2021

announced at the end of last month that Formula 2 championship leader Piastri would serve as its  after missing out on an F1 graduation.

Piastri is set to leave F2 after just a single season, and is on course to win the championship at the first attempt. The Australian extended his advantage to 40 points with two rounds remaining by taking his

Piastri has no racing programme planned for next year in order to focus on the Alpine reserve but is targeting a move up to F1 in 2023.

Alpine signed  to a long-term deal earlier this year, running to the end of 2024, but two-time world champion Alonso is out of contract at the end of next season.

Should Alonso wish to extend his time in F1 beyond 2022 after enjoying his comeback this season, it may leave Alpine looking for alternatives to find a seat for Piastri.

While Budkowski acknowledged it was a “good question” what would happen to Piastri if Alonso continued beyond 2022, he said it was “not about a direct comparison” between the two drivers.

“How are we going to make that decision? Well, let's see next year first,” said Budkowski.

“If the car is quick and Fernando is happy, then we'll have one type of discussion. If that's not the case, then we'll have a different type of discussion.

“But certainly we have a great talent with Oscar in the wings, and if there's no seat available at Alpine, I’m sure we'll find a solution for him to drive a Formula 1 car and stay in the Alpine family.”

Oscar Piastri, Reserve Driver Alpine F1

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

Piastri had been linked with a potential move to , which held the final F1 seat for 2022 prior to announcing Guanyu Zhou last month. Zhou has been part of the Alpine Academy for three seasons, but will cut ties upon joining Alfa Romeo.

Piastri previously said that he knew an F1 move was not realistic for next season, and that he personally never held any talks with Alfa Romeo about the drive.

Piastri is set to enjoy an extensive testing programme with Alpine next season, and is also likely to appear in FP1 sessions under the new regulations that require young drivers to be used at least twice in the season.

Budkowski felt confident that Piastri would play an important role at Alpine next season, supporting the main race team as well as continuing his own development.

“Oscar’s announcement, beyond being an announcement as such that he will be a reserve driver, comes with an awful lot of other things,” Budkowski said.

“Oscar is going to be very involved in a development, in the simulator. He's already doing some of this, but not as much as we'd like because obviously he's racing in Formula 2, and he still needs to win the championship this year.

“But he's going to be doing a lot of development work, a lot of simulator work, spending time in the factory [working] very close with the engineers. He's going to do quite a lot of on-track running as well.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ocon-alonso-out-of-the-box-thinking/6828341/
DATE: 2021

Two-time world champion Alonso returned to the sport in 2021 after a two-year hiatus, and the Spaniard scored his first podium of the season in the Qatar Grand Prix last weekend.

It was Alonso's 98th career podium and his first since the 2014 Hungarian Grand Prix with .

With  retiring after this season, Alonso - a 32-time grand prix winner - will be the eldest driver on the grid next year at 40.

But Ocon, who was joined by Alonso at  this year, says his teammate remains as motivated as ever as both push to help the French squad move towards the front of the grid.

Ocon labelled Alonso a "legend of the sport", and he reckons he is one of the best drivers ever alongside the likes of  and Ayrton Senna.

"I have mega high respect to Fernando," said Ocon. "I know how much work he puts in, how much motivation he has, even now at his age and with how much experience he has and how much he has achieved in the sport. It's more than impressive.

"I think he's just a legend of the sport. He's up there with the top guys, Senna, Schumacher, and he will always remain there. Because what we are doing now and what I see how he thinks out of the box compared to the other drivers is unprecedented.

"There is nobody that will think like him and that will have his race craft ever I think, so I am glad to be his teammate and proud to push as much as we can together for our common target."

Fernando Alonso, Esteban Ocon, Alpine celebrate with the team

Although a new deal was believed to be a formality, .

Alonso is in his third stint with the Enstone-based team, having raced with Renault from 2003-2006 - when he won his two titles - and again in 2008-2009.

The Spanish driver sits 10th in this year's standings with 60 points ahead of Ocon, who has scored 43.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alpine-alonso-qatar-f1-podium-a-question-of-a-few-corners/6809435/
DATE: 2021

The inaugural Qatar Grand Prix proved to be a significant challenge for the Pirelli tyres due to a combination of high-speed corners and aggressive kerbs at the Losail International Circuit.

During Sunday's race, Mercedes' ,  driver  and both  cars of  and  all suffered left-front tyre failures as they attempted what Pirelli called a "marginal" one-stop strategy.

After the race,  into the four tyre failures, suggesting they "could be the result of very high wear combined with high-speed impacts against kerbs that are very aggressive at Losail."

executive director Budkowski admitted that his team was also concerned about whether Alonso's left-front tyre would hold amid high degradation.

Alonso and teammate  both opted for a one-stop strategy on their runs to third and fifth, Alpine's best result since winning the Hungarian Grand Prix before the summer break.

The team realised there was no way back once its drivers had committed to a one-stopper and it therefore instructed them early on to stay off the kerbs and manage the tyres.

But that cautious approach also put Alonso and Ocon under threat from Red Bull's two-stopping . The Mexican managed to pass Ocon for fourth but finished 2.8 seconds shy of Alonso, having started the final tour five seconds behind.

"Everybody really worked hard to make that tyre last until the last few laps, so yeah, it was stressful," Budkowski said.

"We knew if we stopped we wouldn't get anything. We managed these tyres quite early, but also we understood that avoiding the kerbs was key and we instructed our drivers to do that.

"On the last lap I saw all the mechanics jumping on the grid, I was like 'no, no, no, there is a few more corners left'. Just because we... honestly it was a question of a few corners whether we would make it or not."

Fernando Alonso, Esteban Ocon, Alpine celebrate with the team

Budkowski added that he wasn't worried from a safety point of view given that it was only the left-front tyre that was critical.

"Look, there was no safety concern. If you puncture the front tyre, you just lose the front end and you slide," he explained.

"The rear tyre is a bit different because if you lose a rear tyre, you might spin and go off track.

"We were confident we're not putting anyone at risk there but obviously, we're putting our race and our points at risk."

Alonso, who secured his first podium since 2014, said he wasn't thinking about potential failures from the cockpit, and thought he still had a bit of extra margin.

"I don't know, I don't think it was too bad for us," he said.

"It seems that our car is kind on tyres. We did a one-stop also in Brazil last week and I think we had some margin to keep pushing a little bit more, but you never know."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alonso-has-no-explanation-for-alpines-strong-qatar-f1-pace/6805199/
DATE: 2021

The Spaniard earned fifth on the grid in Q3, while his teammate  took ninth.

Both drivers will start immediately behind a car from , the team  is battling for fifth in the constructors' championship, adding an extra dimension to Sunday's race.

"I've been positive all weekend about the car," said Alonso. "It felt very nice in FP1. The track is lovely to drive, and now with the light cars and the new tyres, it feels fantastic.

"I told the team I could be driving all night long if they put me fuel, and I wait for them tomorrow here driving!

"But it seems that some circuits are better than others for our package. Istanbul, Sochi, here, there are some similarities on those circuits. So we need to study what we are missing in some of the circuits.

"Obviously these cars are gone in three weeks' time, so there is not much point maybe to have a deep analysis.

"There is something that for sure seems better for us in some circuits, and hurting us in some others. It will be nice to understand, even if it's for the very long term into next year."

Ocon agreed that lessons could be learned about the team's form in Qatar.

"It's hard for me to say right now, of course we are going to be learning a lot from this weekend to see why the car has been so good during this weekend.

"It would be good knowledge to understand that for future."

Esteban Ocon, Alpine A521

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Alpine executive director Marcin Budkowski admitted that he didn't have a full explanation for why Alpine had outperformed rivals, notably  and .

"I think there's some circuit to circuit variability," he told Motorsport.com.

"We were particularly competitive here from the beginning of the weekend. I don't think we were expecting P5, but we were certainly expecting both cars in Q3. And the gap to the leaders was smaller than usual.

"I think it's a combination of circuit characteristics and our engineering team doing a good job on on tyres and set-up on this new circuit.

"I think it's fair to say we don't fully understand some of the swings in performance, but I'm sure if you asked McLaren Ferrari they're not going to give you a full a full explanation either."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alpine-team-tactics-limit-gasly-brazil/6791689/
DATE: 2021

and  arrived in Interlagos equal on points in the constructors' championship, both having scored 106 points in their fight for fifth place.

The French squad appeared to focus on controlling Gasly during the race, and Ocon asked on the radio to get Alonso to help him keep Gasly behind by staying within DRS distance.

Having pitted later than Ocon, Alonso had stronger race pace later on and the team instructed Ocon to exchange positions in order to try to pressure Gasly.

Eventually the AlphaTauri driver found a way past both rivals to finish in seventh position ahead of the Alpine duo.

Ocon, whose teammate Alonso gave him back the position later in the race, conceded the tactics pushed team cooperation to ultimate limit.

"It was fun and, yeah, we pushed it to the limit," said Ocon. "So what happened is that we switched position with Fernando once.

"Then Fernando was in front and Gasly caught up to us, and then I said in the radio 'would be good if Fernando could give me the DRS', you know, to try and keep Gasly, and he reacted straightaway.

"He did so, you know, changed his line into the last corner, so I take the inside, not have the dirty air and then be close to him on the exit.

"Basically we managed to keep Gasly behind for three or four laps and he would have passed us straightaway if we didn't do any tactics like that.

"It was hard, but fair. I think we've shown how strong the team spirit is and how ready we are to take that fight until the end," he added.

Asked if he thought the tactics could have left Gasly unhappy, Ocon said: "As I said, we pushed it to the limit, but that's the only chance we have to beat them in the constructors'.

"It's been not enough unfortunately for us to stay in front, but we keep the championship tied one more time. And that's good."

Despite being beaten by Gasly, the Interlagos results allowed Alpine to stay level on points with AlphaTauri thanks to the double-points finish.

Although Alonso appeared to have superior pace than Ocon, the Spaniard said he never considered fighting his teammate for position instead of getting the team to ask for the exchange.

"You will never attack your teammate, probably, because you have to run very close to the other car and you will damage the tyres, so you don't want to put that situation.

"And maybe at the beginning of the year you may try, but now we want to score points with both cars.

"That's our main strength as a team, you know, we are fighting with a very fast AlphaTauri, but they have one car, and we have two cars. So we cannot do anything with ourselves."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/piastri-alpine-f1-team-reserve-driver/6787024/
DATE: 2021

The deal is a continuation of the relationship between the 20-year-old and Renault/, Piastri having been part of the French manufacturer's academy system for some time.

The role will include an "extensive testing programme" to help .

“I’m super excited to be joining Alpine F1 Team as reserve driver,” said the Australian. “I’m looking forward to being much more involved with the team and contributing to its intended success next season.

“The reserve driver role is the next step towards my aim for a race seat in 2023, which is very exciting.

“I’ve proved myself in the junior formulas over the last couple of years and feel like I’m ready for Formula 1 now; along with the trackside experience at race weekends, we will put together a substantial test programme in order to keep developing myself to grow even more prepared for a race seat.

“I’m very thankful to Alpine for their support. We’ve enjoyed two very successful seasons together in the Academy and I’m grateful for the faith they’ve put in me for this next step with an eye on a bigger future.

“My focus now is finishing the Formula 2 Championship in the best possible way with Prema and I’m looking forward to being back in the car and pushing hard on track.”

Piastri currently leads the F2 standings in what his rookie season in the second tier, following an impressive Formula 3 title win in 2020.

His run of consecutive title success stretches back to 2019 when he secured the Formula Renault Eurocup crown.

Piastri will replace  in the Alpine reserve driver role.

“Oscar’s natural talent is clear to see, so we’re very proud and privileged to have him as part of our team as our Reserve Driver from next year,” said Alpine CEO Laurent Rossi.

“Not only does Oscar have the on-track skills, as demonstrated over the last couple of years in the junior categories, but also the maturity and composure that makes him really stand out from the rest.

“The next step will be to consistently attend grands prix to fully integrate with the race team, learn what is expected of an F1 driver and be ready for when the opportunity comes.

“Oscar’s graduation highlights the success of our Alpine Academy and underlines its strength as one of the best young driver programmes in motorsport. We look forward to seeing our young talents continue to blossom through the years to come.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aston-martin-f1-boss-szafnauer-set-for-shock-switch-to-alpine/6770226/
DATE: 2021

Just a week after  F1 CEO Laurent Rossi hinted at a  in a bid to move the French car manufacturer up the grid, there are mounting suggestions that Szafnauer has been poached from Aston Martin as part of this plan.

According to sources with good knowledge of the situation, Szafnauer has agreed to the move in principle but there is no formal confirmation yet.

It is unclear when any official announcement will be made. It could potentially come as early as this weekend's Brazilian Grand Prix, or it may wait for the winter to fall in line with a timeline laid out by Rossi.

Both Aston Martin and Alpine have declined to comment on the matter.

An Aston Martin spokesman said: "It's speculative conjecture. We couldn't comment on it therefore."

An Alpine spokesman added: "These are rumours that we are not going to comment on."

Szfanauer said on Thursday evening that the reports were just "media speculation".

"My Aston Martin team communications staff have correctly issued a spokesperson's statement to the effect that rumours linking me to Alpine F1 team are merely 'speculative conjecture' and that they would not therefore comment further," he wrote on Instagram.

"However, since the rumours have now been sensationalised on certain websites, creating a spiral of misinformation, l have taken the decision proactively to confirm hereby that the rumours are pure media speculation and not based on fact."

While there is no news yet about the position that Szafnauer could take, it is possible that his arrival will prompt a wider change of structure at Alpine.

There have been indications for some time that Alpine's racing director Davide Brivio will return to MotoGP for 2022 after deciding that he would prefer a return to two-wheeled racing.

Davide Brivio, Racing Director, Alpine F1, and Esteban Ocon, Alpine F1

Photo by: Charles Coates /

If Brivio does depart, it means that Szafnauer could fulfil more of a team principal role, with Alpine's executive director Marcin Budkowski taking more responsibility on the racing and technical side.

Rossi suggested recently that Alpine needed to shake things up for 2022 after feeling that its progress towards the front of the grid had stalled.

"I think the team has moved from P9 to P5, before the plateau we've reached, pretty well in the past years," Rossi told Motorsport.com.

"But now, to move to the next stage and become the best of the top teams rather than just the best of the rest, it's another evolution that is needed.

"So what I want to do is to keep the momentum of the prior season, that's why I want to keep that fifth position. I don't want us to regress.

"We learned a lot operationally this year, so that's always a plus. We're going to apply that next year, but then we're going to need to build muscles to grow and move from P5 to P1, race after race, season after season in the next few years."

If Szafnauer's departure is confirmed, then it is unclear at this stage who will replace him as team principal at Aston Martin.

The Silverstone squad recently hired former  team boss Martin Whitmarsh to a senior role with Aston Martin Performance Technologies, but he has been present at grands prix and would be an obvious candidate.

Speaking recently, Szafnauer said he did not expect Whitmarsh to be involved much in the F1 team – but a final call had not been made.

"I would imagine at the beginning, most of his time will be spent growing the Aston Martin Performance Technologies area, which is where his most recent expertise lies, and not focus so much on F1," he said.

"But the bit that hasn't been planned is how much of his time will be spent where."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alonso-f1-radio-comments-not-frustration-but-about-ensuring-racing-is-fair/6745666/
DATE: 2021

Since returning to F1 at the start of 2021, Alonso has delivered several fiery in-race messages regarding moves he has been displeased by or regarding officiating calls with which he disagrees.

This includes his comments on drivers going off-track at the start of the Austrian races – he also suggested the reaction to his trip through the Sochi Turn 2 escape road indicates there are “different rules for different people” in F1 – and the outcomes of the incidents involving  and  in the USA.

In the former incident at the Circuit of the Americas, Raikkonen was not ordered to give back a spot to Alonso because FIA race director Michael Masi felt it was a "marginal" call that also considered how far the  driver had pushed the Alfa wide.

Later in the race last time out, Alonso and Giovinazzi both went off-track to complete passes and were ordered to give the positions back in separate incidents – with off-track passing set to be raised by Masi in the drivers’ briefing for this weekend’s Mexican Grand Prix.

When asked about Masi’s planned discussion in the pre-event press conference at the Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez, Alonso said he was “open to listening to whatever they want to say” after earlier saying he “will not bring it [up]”.

He added: “The answers are always very constructive and very positive because we all want to race as fair as possible and we try to address all the problems.

“Because sometimes it’s not only the drivers input or the race itself, it’s just the nature of the circuit.

“In Sochi, you will always have more problems than Silverstone or different circuits. We try to work together for a better solution. So, yeah, let’s see.

“On the other side, it’s not frustration. Don’t be confused. It’s just trying to race fair and to put a good show [on] for the people in the grandstands and on TV.

“We have a lot of fans around the world and we saw the race in Austin how fantastic it was to witness the grandstands full of people etc. So, we try to put a fair show [on] for everybody.”

Fernando Alonso, Alpine F1

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Alonso said he would not be bringing up the matter because “if we bring this topic to the drivers’ meeting, we will have the same answer [from the FIA]”.

He continued: “If you are talking in football and you take the ball inside the area with your hands, it will be a penalty. So, you don’t need to bring this to every match.

“Every time you touch the ball with your hands in the penalty area it’s going to be a penalty – every match you do.”

Alonso said focusing on off-track passing in the drivers’ meeting “is exactly what I don’t want that happens” because “I think there are many other things that we should discuss in that meeting”.

“Like the lap one [incidents at Austin],” he added. “They removed the bumps on the outside after the problem with F4 or whatever – the car that launched outside of Turn 1 – and there were three or four cars going wide in Turn 1.

“So, I would love to talk about those cars, as we talked in Sochi.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ricciardo-abiteboul-tattoo-bet-renault/6679535/
DATE: 2021

During his two-year spell at Renault in 2019 and 2020, Ricciardo had a wager with then team principal Abiteboul that if they scored a podium then the Frenchman would have to get his first tattoo.

That top three finish was duly delivered at last year’s Eifel Grand Prix at the Nurburgring, when Ricciardo came home third behind Lewis Hamilton and Max Verstappen.

The original plan was for the tattoo to be done last winter, but the situation became complicated as Ricciardo switched to McLaren and Abiteboul left his post at Renault as it rebranded under the Alpine moniker.

That meant nothing was done and opened the possibility of the bet falling by the wayside as .

But with Abiteboul having recently contacted Ricciardo following his victory for McLaren at the Italian Grand Prix, the wager looks to be back on – and with some fresh energy to get it done quickly.

Speaking about the situation, Ricciardo said that he had received an email from Abiteboul and had not immediately responded, but intended to do so and push on with their old bet.

“I had an overwhelming number of emails, WhatsApp messages, and all of it, so I did see an email from him,” explained Ricciardo.

“There was the topic of tattoos, so I'm still very optimistic we could get this done before the year’s out. Otherwise it's obviously going to drag on and become old news, so I'm determined to make it happen.”

Speaking last year about the potential design of the tattoo, Ricciardo said he wanted something with a German theme to reflect on the location of their success.

“We'll have to do some thinking now, but probably it will be something to do with me, but I think with a German flavour,” he said.

“This is obviously the place we did it. A little tip of the hat to something traditional in Germany as well.”

This year, Ricciardo had a podium bet with McLaren CEO Zak Brown but it did not involve tattoos. Instead,  that is part of Brown's private car collection.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/renault-alonso-abu-dhabi-test-criticism/4921455/
DATE: 2021

t in what was originally agreed to be a test solely for young drivers.

The one-off rule defining the test, introduced as part of cost-saving measures at the height of the lockdown earlier in the year, reads that drivers “must be in possession of an International A Licence; and unless otherwise approved by the FIA, not have competed in more than two F1 World Championship races during their career.”

The FIA subsequently agreed that Alonso could take part, also giving the nod to Sebastien Buemi at Red Bull, and Robert Kubica at Alfa Romeo.

The decision infuriated rivals, notably Racing Point, McLaren and Ferrari. , but the other two are missing the test, mainly because at the planning stages they did not have young drivers that they wanted to run.

Although known to be fuming, Racing Point boss Otmar Szafnauer has taken a diplomatic approach in public, and when asked on Friday said the team would consider its options.

“I’ve got to understand the rules,” he said. “I was surprised to see Fernando being allowed to test, so we have got to have that discussion with the FIA. I think the rules are pretty clear – it’s a young driver test and a two-time world champion almost in his forties or in his forties to me isn’t a young driver.

“I’ve got to understand what the rules are first and foremost, and then see what we do thereafter.”

Asked about Szafnauer’s comments, Abiteboul suggested that Racing Point should take up the matter with the FIA.

“There is an indication of young drivers, plus anyone that the FIA will give permission to,” he said. “And that's in the absolute right of the FIA to do that.

“So if Otmar wants to build a claim against the FIA, that would be quite rich, keeping in mind that we will know that they have an illegal car.

“We have accepted to settle that one. But if you want to have a go now at the FIA, I would find it quite ironic.”

Teams are unhappy that Renault will gain a sporting advantage by running Alonso, as it will allow him to make a bigger contribution to winter development. Abiteboul made no secret about what the Enstone team stands to gain.

“Why is it necessary?,” he said. “I mean, I'm going to be very straightforward. What's necessary is to give the team the absolute best possible platform to build upon for next year.

“No one is here for anything other than absolute performance, and when teams are not here for performance, they are doing things for commercial purpose, and when they are doing that for commercial purpose, there are all sorts of critics in relation to that.

“Clearly we are not doing that with Fernando for commercial purposes, we are doing that for the sport, for our own competitiveness. And again, that's the case of every single entity.

“So, we've been very straightforward, we've been clear with the FIA, clear with F1 about what we were doing.”

Teams are not supposed to use the Abu Dhabi test to try development parts.

“There are limits in what we can do anyway,” said Abiteboul. “Frankly, it's still very much part of Fernando's going back into shape and stretching his legs.

“He's been amazing in the driving of the two-year-old car, we've done four days of that. He will have one more day of that. That's particularly important in the context of next year, we will have only three days to share across the two drivers of winter test.

“I know it's the same for everyone. But again, that's also one reason why we've asked for that. FIA has taken the time to wait for our request, and has given the permission, but that's very much around Fernando, rather than around the development of the car.”

Abiteboul has made it clear that the FIA’s decision was encouraged by the fact that the French manufacturer has a good record of supporting young drivers, with Guanyu Zhou running the second car in Abu Dhabi.

“I don't think that we can be blamed for not doing lots for young drivers. I don't think that many manufacturers have invested half of what we have invested for young drivers, with our Academy drivers that we are supporting financially, and with our different activities, with Formula Renault Eurocup, a championship in which we have invested since 50 years.

“More than 50% of the drivers in F1 today are coming from the ranks of Formula Renault Europcup. So again, we cannot be blamed for not investing into the young drivers.

“But yes, this time round, because we are thinking of next season, because we need to move on from what's been a great relationship with Daniel [Ricciardo] and we want to project ourselves in new into a new relationship with Fernando, we ask for that permission which the FIA has the absolute right to grant, and they granted it.

“So, it is what it is, and people simply need to deal with it.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ricciardo-abiteboul-podium-tattoo-bet/4866255/
DATE: 2021

for Renault before he leaves the team at the end of this year.

With Ricciardo having delivered a strong fourth place finish in the Belgian Grand Prix, and believing his car can be even stronger in Italy this weekend, he is bullish about winning his bet.

Asked by Motorsport.com about how worried Abiteboul should be about getting his first tattoo, Ricciardo said “I think pretty nervous. I've just seen him now. I told him to stay alert over the next seven days.

“At least last year, Monza was an even stronger circuit for us: and if we are stronger there's only a podium in front of us.

“I'm not getting ahead of myself, or the team isn't, but I think we can go to Monza with confidence and aim high.”

Renault’s performance in Belgium came as the result of its car being much more competitive against its rivals in low-downforce configuration than it is when more wing is needed.

Ricciardo even reckons that had he not lost time behind Pierre Gasly and Sergio Perez after the early safety car in Belgium, that he could have challenged Max Verstappen for the podium already.

“I think if the strategy of Gasly and Perez didn't put a buffer between Max and myself, I really think I could have ran with Max for that last stint,” he said.

“He pulled away because obviously we lost time with the different strategy, and then we reeled a big gap in towards the end. So Monza, all going well, we should be pretty competitive.”

With Renault having had some mixed results so far this year, Ricciardo admitted he never expected to be threatening a Red Bull the way he did on Sunday.

“It was certainly surprising,” he said. “I knew we would have a decent car. But when I heard the lap times, and that the Mercedes was dropping off tails, I thought okay, maybe everyone's just saving their engines.

“But it sounded like they were genuinely struggling a bit and we were just getting faster and faster and faster. It was really encouraging that pace at the end.”

The details of the podium/tattoo bet are that Abiteboul can choose the location of the tattoo while Ricciardo can choose its design.

Speaking about what his plan was, Ricciardo joked that he had already seen some photoshopped images of Abiteboul with a face tattoo like Mike Tyson.

“I saw some mock ups of the Tyson face tat...on Cyril,” he said. “But I think he chooses the placement, so it's definitely not going to be on his face!

“I wouldn't be cruel and get him like a rubber duck or something. I'll get him, I think, something so it's a good memory, so I guess maybe the destination where the podium happens. So something to do with that, whether it's that circuit or that city in that country. We'll see.

“Or a shoe maybe, a Shoey. We will cross that bridge when we get there, but I am sure I will be flooded with ideas.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ferrari-mclaren-lotus-williams-f1-cars-in-new-petersen-exhibit/6639330/
DATE: 2021

The cars have been loaned by Juan Gonzalez, chairman of the board of Mission Foods, one of Arrow McLaren SP IndyCar team’s sponsors, who was primary on Juan Pablo Montoya’s Indy 500 entry this year.

The exhibit will “offer opportunities to educate visitors about extreme vehicle aerodynamics, unusual materials such as soft racing tire rubber and other unique facets of F1 car design and construction”.

“‘Pole Position’ is guaranteed to excite our guests, especially those who are avid F1 fans or gearheads,” said Petersen executive director Terry L. Karges. “Seeing these cars up close and personal is a rare opportunity.

“Anyone who is fascinated by the mechanics of speed and aerodynamics will be entranced by this stunning display of sophisticated machinery.”

“Pole Position: The Juan Gonzalez Formula 1 Collection” opened to the public July 24 and is on display in the Charles Nearburg Family Gallery until June 5, 2022. For more information, visit .

The Petersen Automotive Museum is located on Wilshire Boulevard along Museum Row in the Miracle Mile neighborhood of Los Angeles, CA 90036.

Photo by: Petersen Automotive Museum

The earliest model on show is a 1987 Lotus 99T-Honda, the active suspension type that Ayrton Senna drove to victory in Monaco and Detroit that year, on his way to third in the championship.

Arguably the main curio for F1 geeks is the 1994 Williams FW15D-Renault, a model that never raced. It was the previous year’s dominant FW15C, as designed by Adrian Newey and driven by Alain Prost to his fourth and final title, but with its active suspension and traction control systems removed. This was Williams’ interim car before 1994’s pukka FW16 was available to test, as Formula 1 started an era when such electronic ‘gizmos’ were banned.

The 1995 McLaren MP4/10 (including ‘B and C’ derivatives) was not a massively successful car – nine top-five finishes including two runner-up finishes in the hands of Mika Hakkinen – but was significant as the first of the collaborations between McLaren and Mercedes-Benz, a partnership that would last 20 seasons (and has restarted in 2021).

The Ferrari F399 scored six wins in 1999, Eddie Irvine forced into the Scuderia’s lead driver role for much of that season following Michael Schumacher’s leg-breaking shunt at Silverstone. He ultimately fell short of defeating Hakkinen to the drivers’ title, but he, Schumacher and Schuey’s sub Mika Salo accumulated enough points to earn Ferrari its first Constructors’ title in 16 years.

The ‘shrink-wrapped’ look of the McLaren MP4-20-Mercedes is quite startling – although less so to any student of Newey’s designs – and is highlighted by the subtle gray/silver/black colorscheme of the team’s sponsor, West cigarettes. The car scored 10 wins that year thanks to Kimi Raikkonen and Juan Pablo Montoya, and only unreliability prevented Raikkonen beating Ferrari’s Schumacher to the crown.

Although bearing the number of his 2008 title-winning MP4-23, the Lewis Hamilton-liveried McLaren on show is an MP4-24, and the new F1 regulations to which the designers were constrained for 2009 is immediately apparent in the car’s tall rear wing, full-width front wing and absence of aerodynamic flicks and strakes on its bodywork. Hamilton scored two wins but Brawn GP dominated the first half of the season and Red Bull Racing was on the rise…

The McLaren MP4-26 took Hamilton and Jenson Button to six wins and fifth and second in the 2011 championship respectively, despite this being an era when Newey’s designs for Red Bull Racing were trampling the opposition more often than not.

The 2013 Ferrari F138 will be seen as significant for two reasons. It was, of course, the final Formula 1 Ferrari designed with a naturally-aspirated 2.4-liter V8 before grand prix racing switched to hybrid regulations for the following year. It is also the model in which Fernando Alonso scored his 32nd and 33rd grand prix victories – so far, his most recent…

The Scuderia Toro Rosso STR12 was the last Renault-engined car by the little Faenza-based team and is significant as the first F1 ride for Pierre Gasly, the team’s star over the past 18 months in which he scored an underdog win at the Italian Grand Prix.

The 2018 McLaren MCL33 is the first of the team’s three Renault-powered models, and while not successful, it is important as the last model in which Alonso raced for the team in F1 before taking a two-year sabbatical to (successfully) tackle the World Endurance Championship, the Le Mans 24 Hours and the Rolex 24 Hours at Daytona. The MCL33 also shows the Halo device around the cockpit, which was mandated by the FIA from the start of that season.

Detail photo of Kimi Raikkonen's 2005 McLaren F1 MP4-20

Photo by: Petersen Automotive Museum

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ocon-doubts-gasly-will-need-much-help-getting-up-to-speed-at-alpine-/10415198/
DATE: 2022

Gasly will join  next year after spending the entirety of his racing career to date under the Red Bull umbrella, with the majority of his time in F1 coming at its  team.

The move will see Gasly replace two-time world champion , who signed for Aston Martin at the end of July.

Ocon has raced for the Enstone-based team since 2020, and played a role in helping Alonso get back up to speed when he joined last year after spending two years away from F1.

But Ocon is confident that Gasly will be able to hit the ground running at Alpine, and won't need much of a helping hand to settle in through the early part of 2023.

"I don't think he's going to need much help," Ocon told Motorsport.com.

"I think Pierre is very experienced. He's driven for different teams, he's driven a lot in testing also prior to that. It's always a learning curve of understanding the car, how you work.

"The team and I, we have the keys, and again, the important thing is for us to debate, do the same thing we were doing with Fernando.

"Straightaway we need to be on pace to be able to score, and to give good feedback to the team, to really improve it.

"I've already [tried] some parts of the '23 cars, and it was very encouraging, incredibly fast I would say. So far, it's only simulations, but it feels good. We need to keep going that way, and Pierre will be a good asset for that."

Pierre Gasly sampled the Alpine A522 at the Abu Dhabi post-season test

Gasly enjoyed his first run-out in an Alpine F1 car at the end-of-season test in Abu Dhabi last month, and said the potential he felt was "even better" than he had expected.

Gasly and Ocon will become teammates despite previous off-track tensions, but both have been clear these have now been put in the past and they will be able to work together to move the team forward.

Asked if he found the attention around the previous tension with Gasly annoying, Ocon replied: "It is, because there's really no huge drama.

"I understand you guys would like more drama, because you have some articles to write! But no, there is none of that.

"When we met with the bosses, we had a good chat for 10, 15 minutes, remembering also the young times that I posted on Instagram with my dad mounting tyres and us both six or seven years old.

"It's an amazing story. We both come from a very near region, we were training on the same track. The first time Pierre jumped in a go-kart, it was my go-kart. It's pretty amazing, pretty crazy.

"I think we have a great story to write altogether with this team."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alonso-alpine-f1-reliability-struggles-not-comparable-to-mclaren-honda/10415039/
DATE: 2022

Alonso finished his second season since returning to F1 ninth in the championship, but rued a number of missed opportunities due to recurring reliability problems that emerged throughout the season.

The Spaniard was open in his frustration about the problems  faced at times, believing it had cost him dozens of points that resulted in a head-to-head loss to teammate  in 2022.

It was not the first time Alonso saw a season get impacted by regular reliability problems, spending three years racing for  through its tricky Honda partnership.

But Alonso rejected a comparison between the two periods, saying Alpine had been “more competitive this year.”

“When we finished the race, it was more enjoyable,” said Alonso.

“In McLaren-Honda, we were always out of the points. So I will not compare.”

Alonso endured a difficult stint with McLaren through its Honda partnership, joining the team in 2015 when the Japanese manufacturer returned to F1 as an engine supplier.

Fernando Alonso, McLaren MP4-31

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

But a difficulty in getting to grips with the V6 hybrid engines while playing catch-up with the existing suppliers made for a difficult season that limited Alonso to just two top-10 finishes.

Although 2016 saw McLaren and Honda take a step forward, a troublesome 2017 followed that prompted their deal to be terminated.

McLaren linked up with Renault from 2018, while Honda joined forces with Toro Rosso, paving the way for an eventual deal with Red Bull.

Alonso failed to reach the chequered flag six times in 2022, compared to eight in 2015 and 10 in 2017.

He also recorded far more consistent results through this year for Alpine when he wasn’t impacted by reliability issues, scoring a best result of fifth at Silverstone, Spa and Interlagos.

But the two-time world champion said after retiring from his final race for Alpine in Abu Dhabi that the “facts this year have been against us a little bit in car 14” as his DNF tally did not reflect all of his issues.

“[There have been] six DNFs but also [things] they don't count as a DNF but they were DNF like Australia the qualifying problem,” said Alonso.

“The sprint race in Austria, I didn't even start the race, and things like that. So I think there are nine or 10 reliability issues, which are this level is obviously not acceptable.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ocon-should-be-known-as-the-french-minister-of-defence-says-szafnauer/10414120/
DATE: 2022

Ocon picked up the majority of ’s points this year as it finished fourth in the constructors’ championship, beating  at the final race of the season.

Although Ocon failed to record a podium finish through 2022, he said it had been his , a feeling supported by his biggest points total in a single campaign.

Asked by Motorsport.com if he had seen a big step up from Ocon this year, Alpine F1 chief Szafnauer said he’d had “some fabulous races” before highlighting his defensive efforts.

“There were other times where we thought, 'oh no, the performance isn't there', and then he pulled it out. So really, really good for him,” said Szafnauer.

“But yeah, Suzuka stands out to me. That was amazing! Lewis [Hamilton], in a , very good in the wet, changeable conditions, drying conditions, driving in your mirrors all time, Lewis was in the faster car.

“I mean, just look where [Mercedes] finished the championship. And he held him off. Brilliant.”

Piere Gasly, Otmar Szafnauer, Team Principal, Alpine, Esteban Ocon, Alpine

Ocon managed to fend off Hamilton for the duration of the rain-shortened Japanese Grand Prix at Suzuka, beating the seven-time world champion to fourth place.

Hamilton was able to put Ocon under pressure at the hairpin and on the run from Spoon to 130R, but the Alpine driver did not waver, positioning his car perfectly to stay ahead.

Performances like that left Szafnauer confident in following races that Ocon would be able to keep drivers back, before joking that Ocon should be given a nickname like , who was dubbed the Mexican minister of defence for his efforts in Abu Dhabi last year.

“I know Checo's nickname is minister of defence, but maybe we should change that to... what's minister of defence in France?” asked Szafnauer.

“Let's figure out what that is. Figure out what that is and give him that nickname!”

Upon finishing the press briefing in Abu Dhabi, Szafnauer was greeted by Ocon, who presented him with a signed Alpine F1 race suit from the 2021 season. Szafnauer then told Ocon of his nickname idea, to which Ocon translated into French as “ministre de la défense.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ocon-alonso-alpine-f1-teammates/10413015/
DATE: 2022

and  concluded two seasons racing together at  in the Abu Dhabi season finale at the end of last month, ahead of Alonso's switch to Aston Martin for the 2023 season.

The year saw Ocon finish ahead of Alonso in the final points standings, outscoring him 92-81, meaning he ended their two-season partnership with a better points record (166-162) and a higher race finish through his victory in Hungary last July. It means Ocon is the first driver since  in 2007

Alonso was hit by a number of reliability issues this year that cost him points, but Ocon said he "had my issues too" and that it felt good to have won their head-to-head battle.

"It feels good, I would say," said Ocon. "He's a very, very fast driver. I had to up my game as much as I could.

"To finish in front of him is good satisfaction this year."

While Ocon failed to record a podium in F1 this year, he recorded his highest points total to date and matched his best championship finish of eighth from his first full season in 2017.

The Frenchman felt that a podium finish was the "only thing" that was missing from his season, which he rated as being his best in F1 so far.

Esteban Ocon, Alpine A522, Fernando Alonso, Alpine A522

Photo by: Andy Hone /

It came despite recurring reliability issues for Alpine over the season that more often than not seemed to impact Alonso's car. Ocon felt Alpine had "created this position ourselves" with its push for performance, but that he had enjoyed working with Alonso to help take the team forward in that drive.

"It's been great to work with Fernando and push the team in such a level," said Ocon.

"I'm glad to have spent two years with him, I wish him the best at Aston, and hopefully we can fight closely in the future."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ocon-only-a-podium-missing-from-strongest-f1-season-yet/10409541/
DATE: 2022

Ocon finished the 2022 season in eighth in the drivers' standings, 11 points clear of teammate , the Spaniard admittingly bearing the brunt of Alpine's reliability issues.

But while an absolute highlight, such as his shock win in the 2021 Hungarian Grand Prix, was missing from Ocon's year, the Frenchman says 2022 felt like his most complete season yet as an all-round driver.

"I think it does. The only thing that I missed this year is in the end a podium," Ocon rated his fifth full-time season in F1. "But for different circumstances we didn’t get those, but hopefully we can get some of that next year.

"All the targets that we set ourselves are accomplished. We finished fourth in the constructors’ championship. It is also my best season in Formula 1 in terms of points.

"I'm very pleased with that, good job by the whole team to have developed the car so much, and over the year. Hopefully we can close even more the gap for next year."

Esteban Ocon, Alpine F1 Team at Press Conference

When asked by Motorsport.com/Autosport how much of a feather in his cap it was to beat Alonso to eighth in the championship, Ocon replied: "I had my issues too. It feels good, it feels good I would say. He’s a very, very fast driver. I had to up my game as much as I could. To finish in front of him is good satisfaction this year."

Alpine's reliability issues also opened the door to  in the battle for fourth in the constructors' championship, but despite being outscored by faster McLarens in Abu Dhabi the Enstone team managed to secure the position, a fight which wasn't as straightforward as it perhaps should have been.

"We were the fourth-best team, yes, but McLaren were very fast at times, and they outscored us in the beginning of the season. So, it was not that straightforward in the first part of the year," Ocon admitted.

In 2023 Ocon will be partnered at  by fellow countryman , who severed his ties with Red Bull and , while two-time world champion Alonso is moving across to Aston Martin.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/gasly-potential-with-alpine-even-better-than-expected-after-first-f1-test/10406662/
DATE: 2022

Gasly made his first appearance for  during the post-season test day at the Yas Marina Circuit, giving him an introduction to the team ahead of his move from  for 2023.

The Frenchman spent a full day in the A522 car, marking his first run-out in F1 machinery that did not have ties to Red Bull after spending the entirety of his career to date under its umbrella.

Gasly said after the test he was "very positively surprised" and that his adaptation went "pretty well" given the change in environment.

"It was kind of surprising at the start, but we managed to get everything we wanted," Gasly said of the test running.

"Very quickly I felt comfortable in the car, and I understand now why they finished fourth in the teams' championship. It all makes sense for me, so I'm very excited for what's coming."

Pierre Gasly, Alpine A522

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Asked if the test confirmed his thoughts about the potential Alpine has, Gasly replied: "I think it's been even better.

"So far from what I've seen, there is massive experience in this team, from the engineers inside the engineering office but also inside the garage.

"I haven't seen everything yet, I still need to go to Enstone and see all the tools and facilities they have. But I've been very impressed with their way of approaching this first day."

Gasly was also impressed by the welcome he received from Alpine, particularly given how close the test was to the find of the season.

"It's never easy when you've got someone new coming in," he said. "We were still racing [against each other] two days ago with our respective teams and drivers so it goes pretty quick.

"But they've been very welcoming in the best possible way, and so far [there are] only positive signs.

"So it's really promising for the future."

Gasly will get only one-and-a-half days in pre-season testing to adjust to its 2023 car ahead of the opening race in Bahrain as he splits duties with new teammate , making the Abu Dhabi running a useful way to get a first read of its processes.

The Frenchman is set to formally link up with his new team in January once his final duties for AlphaTauri are complete, which included a recent appearance at the Honda Thanks Day in Japan.

"I'm in the transition phase," Gasly said.

"Obviously sporting-wise, I'm fully focused for next year with Alpine. I still have a couple of commitments to do with AlphaTauri but yeah, I'll start working with the guys for next season."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alpine-arrived-at-first-f1-test-in-shambles-before-2022-recovery/10406270/
DATE: 2022

clinched P4 in the standings at the Abu Dhabi season finale, ending the year 14 points clear of  and finishing as the leading midfield team behind Red Bull,  and .

It marked the team’s best result in the constructors’ championship since 2018, and was a big turnaround from its low-key showing in pre-season testing.

Reflecting on the season, Alpine chief Rossi was impressed by the team’s ability to outdevelop its rivals throughout the year and turn things around, conceding it was not in good shape at the initial pre-season test.

“We started the season in bad shape - I mean, we arrived in Barcelona in shambles, I could say,” said Rossi.

“Then the idea was to develop as late as we can, because it was a brand new car, and then from there, to try and make our way up the grid.

“Nobody was seeing us anywhere above eighth position, I remember back then, and McLaren had a very fast car.

“So I'm quite pleased that we managed to catch up and then hopefully overtake them to get where we are now.”

Although neither  nor  managed to score a podium in 2022, both were regular fixtures in the points and finished eighth and ninth respectively in the final standings.

It marked a successful first year for Alpine under its new management structure, headed up by Rossi and with Otmar Szafnauer installed as team principal following the exit of executive director Marcin Budkowski at the end of last season.

Rossi explained that the new team structure was always intended to pursue an aggressive upgrade approach through the year, contributing to its fourth-place finish.

"At the beginning of the season, the goal was to put a new structure in place, which we did,” said Rossi.

“That structure was supposed to deliver innovations, upgrades throughout the entire season, to be more competitive, which we did, which culminate ultimately in a better position.

“So it is important [to finish fourth] not just financially but also for the momentum. We said we would try and progress every year to catch up as much as we can with the top teams. It's important not to miss the first step.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/gasly-faster-piastri-2023-alpine/10404450/
DATE: 2022

During the summer break  intended for reserve driver Piastri to step into the seat left by Aston Martin-bound  but was caught out by the Australian rookie signing a deal with  to replace .

Amid the ensuing fallout F1's Contract Recognition Board ruled in Piastri's and McLaren's favour, Alpine has had to shop around for a replacement.

It settled on Frenchman Gasly, whom Red Bull agreed to release from his contract and was replaced at  by rookie .

Speaking at Sunday's Abu Dhabi season finale, Szafnauer believes Alpine has come out better from F1's standout silly season saga, because he thinks Gasly is a better driver than Piastri will turn out to be.

When asked by Motorsport.com to reflect on the driver change and the politics involved, Szafnauer said: "Thinking that Oscar had a contract with us and the Contract Recognition Board saying something different was a process we had to go through.

"We had to go to the CRB and then get resolution. You know, that's life, that's why you have bodies that judge in if two sides think differently.

"Look, let's see how we do next year. I'm happy that our driving pairing with Esteban [Ocon] and Pierre is better than it would have been if we had won that case.

"[Gasly is] more experienced, still young. And time will tell, but I think faster."

Oscar Piastri, McLaren speaks to the media

Photo by: Carl Bingham /

Asked if Ocon and Gasly would turn out to be a better driver pairing than this year's combination of Ocon and Alonso, Szafnauer replied: "That's a good question.

"We had a great driver pairing this year and Fernando did a fabulous job and he's still super-fast.

"I don't know when Fernando will raise his hand and say, 'it's time to go'. I don't know when that will happen, so it's hard for me to say.

"I'm happy with our driver pairing but ask me that next year at this point and I'll answer for you."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alonso-abu-dhabi-dnf-summary-year/10403199/
DATE: 2022

Alonso made his final appearance for  in Sunday’s Abu Dhabi Grand Prix ahead of his move to Aston Martin, but failed to make it to the chequered flag due to a water leak.

Although Alpine still secured fourth in the constructors’ championship, Alonso was left ruing yet more lost points after his sixth retirement of the season. He had been fighting for points, sitting 10th in the opening stint, before dropping out of the race on lap 27.

“Unfortunately another engine problem, so it has been the summary of the year,” said Alonso after the race in Abu Dhabi.

“Unfortunately on car 14, always these things happen, so one more.”

Alonso has suffered a number of retirements this season due to a mixture of poor reliability and being taken out in on-track incidents, such as at Spa with  and in Austin with .

Fernando Alonso, Alpine

Photo by: Erik Junius

It meant Alonso finished the year ninth in the championship, 11 points behind teammate , but he has regularly pointed to the number of points he has lost this year.

Asked if he felt sad his time with Alpine was over or glad the season was at an end, Alonso replied: “I’m happy that it’s finished.

“As you know, there are facts that this year have been against us a little bit in car 14. Six DNFs, but also [ones] they don't count as a DNF but they were DNF, like Australia, the qualifying problem. The sprint race in Austria, I didn't even start the race, and things like that.

“So I think there are nine or 10 reliability issues, which at this level is obviously not acceptable. And they all happen to my car.

“So I'm happy to finish and start on Monday the seat fit with Aston, Tuesday the tyre test, and hopefully a new project with more luck.”

Alonso made his F1 comeback with Alpine in 2021 after spending two seasons out of the series, marking his third stint with the Enstone-based team. He raced for the outfit under its Renault guise from 2003-06 and 2008-09, winning the world title in 2005 and 2006.

“The frustration of today, there is nothing I can do, but I'm very gratefuI,” Alonso said.

“I will always think of Alpine or Renault with good memories. We won the two championships, I spent nine years of my life in Formula 1 with Renault or Alpine.

“I will be thankful always and wish them the best of luck next year.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sargeant-lined-up-for-winter-testing-with-2021-alpine-f1-car/10403062/
DATE: 2022

Sargeant, who secured his FIA superlicence over the course of the Abu Dhabi Formula 2 weekend, is expected to be officially confirmed soon as a 2023  driver, and he will take part in Tuesday’s young driver test with the Grove team.

However as a favour to Williams and in order to help him gain more useful miles  has offered to rent seat time in the coming months in its TPC [testing of previous cars] chassis, which has been driven this year by Oscar Piastri, Jack Doohan,  and .

Sargeant has already had a low-key outing in the Alpine but driving for the outfit's car as a fully-fledged race driver for another team is an unusual step.

Although yet to be formally agreed, the planned arrangement reflects a friendly co-operation between the two teams after they came close to agreeing a deal for Piastri to be loaned to Williams for 2023, before the Australian made his move to .

“We wouldn't be adverse to putting him in one of our old cars and running him,” Alpine boss Otmar Szafnauer told Motorsport.com.

“They were helpful with us [over Piastri], and it will be a big help for Logan to run in an F1 car – a two-year-old car now, but still relatively close. And if that's what they decide to do, we'd be willing to look at it.”

Asked if it was unusual for two rival teams to cooperate in this way Szafnauer said: “At this point, hopefully, we won't be competing with them next year! There might come a time where we've got to rethink that.

Logan Sargeant, Williams FW44

Photo by: Carl Bingham /

"It's good to have a relationship with them just in case in the future we need each other, and if we can help them and make a bit of money from it, why not?"

Szafnauer acknowledged that Alpine could one day follow the planned Piastri model, for example by loaning Jack Doohan to Williams: “It's nice to have somebody that's amenable to do that.”

Williams team principal Jost Capito expanded on the team's good relationship with Alpine.

"I think we are friendly with all teams,” he told Motorsport.com. “Without being friendly with Red Bull, it couldn't have happened with Alex [Albon].

“And with  we are a good customer, we are friendly with them. I think we are friendly with everybody. And if you compete on the track it doesn't mean you can't be friendly with other teams."

Regarding Sargeant’s qualification for a superlicence he said: "That's what we were working towards. So I think we can confirm him soon. We had various options for Plan B that we would have got into detail if it wouldn't have worked out.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/abu-dhabi-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026193/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alpine-team-game-paid-off-in-brazil-gp-after-driver-silliness-in-f1-sprint/10400728/
DATE: 2022

bounced back from a disastrous sprint event at Interlagos that saw the two drivers collided twice on the opening lap, ruining both of their races.

From their lowly grid positions for the grand prix itself, Alonso charged through the field to secure fifth place, while Ocon finished three places behind in eighth.

The double score extended the team’s advantage over  in the battle for fourth in the constructors’ championship to 19 points with just the Abu Dhabi finale to come.

One of the keys to the performance was Ocon agreeing to let Alonso past after soon the late safety car restart, allowing the Spaniard to take advantage of his fresher tyres.

"It just shows, I guess, the unpredictability of F1,” said Szafnauer when asked by Autosport about the change in fortunes from Saturday to Sunday.

“But I think what it shows most importantly is that when you play the team game, everybody wins. The drivers, when they score points, they get their points bonus, and the team wins.

“So it is a team game, ultimately, and we have to maximise the team points. And the drivers can do that by playing a team game, which is exactly what they did."

Esteban Ocon, Alpine A522, Fernando Alonso, Alpine A522

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Szafnauer made it clear that the drivers had reacted after being lectured following their collisions in the sprint.

"Yeah, you have to point out to them that it's unacceptable to come together when you've got over 1000 people between Enstone and Viry working tirelessly to make sure we finish fourth in the championship, bringing upgrades, working Saturdays, Sundays, making sure that the car is as competitive as it can be, and the mechanics here too.

“And to have that silliness on track where you just run into each other, push your teammate wide, not let them by, especially when it's so close in the championship - I think the message got through, and we did a good job today."

In the main race there was some tension on the radio when Ocon challenged an instruction not to fight Alonso at the restart, insisting that he would first try to pass  ahead, and then let his teammate through at the right time.

“What it was is his engineer told him and heard nothing back from Esteban,” Szafnauer said of the heated radio chat.

“So he told him again. And that was just to make sure that the radio transmission did go through.

“So he told him twice. And that's when Esteban said I heard you the first time, but I need to fight Vettel and [Valtteri] Bottas, and he was right in doing so.

“And what we said beforehand, is look, you're going to be on different strategies at the end.

"So if somebody has a tyre advantage, or if we're in this situation, let's not fight each other, and let's lose the least amount of time letting your teammate by because you're on a different strategy.

“That happened, that transpired under a safety car, and I think Esteban was absolutely right in saying I'm not going to do it straight away because I can get Vettel and I can get Bottas. Thereafter we'll do what we said we're going to do with the strategy. And he was right."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-reserve-drivers-all-teams-backup-2023/10437681/
DATE: 2023

Formula 1 teams are well underway preparing for the forthcoming 2025 campaign, which will consist of 24 grands prix beginning in Melbourne on the 14-16 March.

The grid is set and all but two teams -  and Aston Martin - have changed their driver line-up, meaning this year will have a new look.

But it is not just the full-time competitors that play a crucial role, as a team’s back-up driver does as well.

Reserve drivers act on standby during grand prix weekends and may contest one should a team’s regular driver be unable to. This happened at the 2024 Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, for example, as .

F1 teams also employ simulator drivers, who test changes made to the car so that everybody can gain a greater understanding of the machine.

So, who are the drivers supporting their team behind the scenes for 2025?

Liam Lawson served as Red Bull’s reserve driver at the start of the 2024 season, but then .

. This means Red Bull is currently without an official reserve driver, though Lawson’s former team-mate Yuki Tsunoda is expected to step into the role.

Meanwhile, Rudy van Buren will continue as Red Bull’s simulator test and development driver after joining in 2023.

Rudy van Buren, Red Bull F1 Simulator Test and Development Driver

Photo: Red Bull Racing

, but in a reserve driver capacity having been ’s team-mate from 2017 to 2021. The 10-time grand prix winner left for  - now  - having been replaced by George Russell, who was previously at  after graduating to F1 as a Mercedes junior.

But the Swiss outfit opted for an all-new line-up this year ahead of its Audi takeover in 2026, leaving Bottas without a drive. So, in December 2024 Mercedes announced that the Finn was back with the Silver Arrows replacing former reserve Mick Schumacher, who is part of Alpine's Hypercar programme.

Sharing the role with Bottas is the 2023 F2 championship runner-up Frederik Vesti, who started the position last year having become a Mercedes junior in 2021.

, having been part of its academy between 2015 and 2018. He initially left to become Renault’s development driver in 2019 before making his F1 debut with Alfa Romeo in 2022 but, like Bottas, he was dropped by the Hinwil-based outfit for this year.

He will work alongside , who was Zhou's predecessor at Alfa Romeo. The Italian became Ferrari’s reserve driver in 2022 and Giovinazzi also competes for the historic brand in the World Endurance Championship, where he won the 2023 Le Mans 24 Hours.

Regarding Ferrari’s development drivers, that includes Arthur Leclerc who joined in 2024. He is the younger brother of full-time Ferrari driver  and is joined by  and Davide Rigon.

Zhou Guanyu, Ferrari reserve driver

McLaren is yet to announce who its reserve drivers for 2025 are, with previous incumbent . But Arrow McLaren IndyCar driver Pato O’Ward has previously contested F1 practice sessions for the Woking-based team, so it is likely he will continue his commitments.

McLaren also employs , who spends a lot of time in the team’s simulator where he works closely with the engineers and regular drivers.

Aston Martin has retained Felipe Drugovich and  as its reserve drivers for 2025. Previously the team was able to call on the reserves of engine partner Mercedes in case of an emergency but in more recent years, Aston Martin has introduced its own reserve drivers.

While Vandoorne joined from Mercedes in November 2022, Drugovich has graduated from the Aston Martin driver development programme and the 2022 F2 champion has worked with the squad since 2023.

Felipe Drugovich, Aston Martin F1 Team

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Jack Doohan will contest his first, full campaign in F1 this year after serving as Alpine’s reserve driver in 2024 before replacing  at the Abu Dhabi season finale.

As a result, Alpine has announced Paul Aron, Ryo Hirakawa and Franco Colapinto as its reserve drivers for 2025.

Aron had a stellar F2 campaign last year, finishing third to champion Gabriel Bortoleto and Isack Hadjar, while Hirakawa has joined from McLaren where he held a similar role.

There is more hype around Colapinto though, who made his - relatively unexpected - F1 debut in Monza 2024 having replaced Logan Sargeant at . He impressed immediately finishing 12th before taking points at his second grand prix in Azerbaijan with eighth.

But Williams had already announced  as ’s team-mate for 2025, so there was no full-time seat for Colapinto. As a result, , where a spot may soon open up for the young Argentine given Doohan’s unsecure future.

Williams does not currently employ its own reserve driver, as previous incumbent Colapinto has left for the same role at Alpine after impressing for the British squad in his nine-round stint last year.

Jamie Chadwick, meanwhile, serves as its development driver after joining Williams in 2019 which is the year she clinched her first of three W Series titles.

Jamie Chadwick, Williams

Hadjar served as Racing Bull’s reserve driver last year, when it was known as . But following Lawson’s promotion, Hadjar will partner Tsunoda for his rookie season leaving Racing Bulls currently without an official reserve driver.

Considering its close ties with Red Bull though, the Faenza-based squad can call on whomever is in the Red Bull pool.

Zane Maloney and Theo Pourchaire have left the Sauber set-up since acting as reserve drivers last year. The Swiss outfit is yet to confirm who will support its all-new line-up of  and Bortoleto before the squad morphs into the Audi works team in 2026.

Haas is also yet to announce its reserve driver for 2025 having promoted previous incumbent Bearman to a full-time seat at the American squad. One option could be Pietro Fittipaldi though, as the grandson of double world champion Emerson joined the team in 2019 and in that time has started two races due to ’s crash at the 2020 Bahrain Grand Prix.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/courageous-renault-ran-out-of-time-to-get-f1-engine-on-par-with-rivals-alpine/10557791/
DATE: 2023

Renault's powertrain department in Viry took risks with last year's RE22 engine on the basis that it could gain performance before its specification was frozen, and then deal with reliability issues with FIA-approved fixes if necessary.

However, in 2023, it was clear that the essentially unchanged RE23 still lagged behind rivals Honda,  and  by around 20-30 bhp.

With the backing of the FIA, efforts were made this summer to gain support for an update programme that would have put Renault on a par with the other manufacturers for the last two years of the current regulations in 2024 and 2025.

However, that strategy was abandoned and in effect, Renault has accepted its deficit for the next two seasons and switched its full focus to developing a new engine for the 2026 regulations.

Asked if an engine deficit was frustrating for the chassis side of the team, Harman denied that was the case.

"I wouldn't say frustrating," he said. "I think we tried. I think it's important that we try these things. In the end, we have the technology and the capability to put the power unit where we'd like it to be, we just ran out of time on the RE22.

"We were very courageous with that engine. Okay, it's a little bit behind where we'd like it to be. But it used to be a long way behind, and we made a big step, but we just didn't quite get there enough.

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Jack Doohan, Alpine A523

"And we just couldn't take any more risks than we did, it would have been nice to have it unlocked for a little while just to do that again.

"But in the end, I think it's also important to note that we've got another power unit to do at the moment. That's a big focus for the team. And that's where we see our future.

"So I think we took a decision in the end, actually, to just focus on the future. And we'll deal with this power unit for the next two years by trying to remove some of its parasitic losses and do everything that we can do inside the regulations."

Harman conceded that the team didn't always do enough in 2023 to optimise the A523 for high-speed venues.

"You've all seen the numbers, we've stated the delta that we have," he said. "It's not just about the power unit deficit. If we look at Monza, and we look at how we performed there, it was not a good weekend for us.

"We didn't expect to be there. We knew the performance delta for the power unit before we went in, but we didn't expect to be in that position.

"And that tells you something that we just didn't do enough on the chassis side to complement the power unit and make the best of it. And that's something we actually learned for Las Vegas."

He added: "We do have to make some compromises, of course, you have to re-optimise your car into a different zone. I think there's a lot you can do. And I don't think we did enough at some of the circuits where the power unit dominates."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/davide-brivio-to-leave-alpine-racing-after-three-years/10557384/
DATE: 2023

Brivio joined  at the start of the 2021 season as its racing director in F1, having the previous year guided Suzuki to its first MotoGP world championship in 20 years with Joan Mir.

The Italian was moved out of the F1 team for the 2022 season, however, to head its young driver programme as director of racing expansion projects.

Brivio's current contract with Alpine did extend into next year, but he and the company have agreed mutually to part ways at the end of 2023.

This move comes just weeks after a report in Speedweek stated he was being lined up to replace Alberto Puig as Repsol Honda's team boss in MotoGP.

Honda has been mired in a difficult period in MotoGP of late, with it losing Marc Marquez to Gresini Ducati for 2024, while internally it has undergone a number of senior personnel changes.

However, Motorsport.com understands Brivio does not have an offer from Honda to join for 2024.

"It has been a proud chapter in my motorsport career to be involved in Formula 1 with Alpine," Brivio said.

"I would like to thank Alpine for the opportunity to experience Formula 1 which was my desire and also for the chance to pass on some of my experience in motorsport onto its young drivers in the Alpine Academy.

"I wish the team and the Academy the best in the future and I'm sure we will see many young drivers go on to achieve fantastic things in their careers.

"To play a small part in some of that success will certainly be something I will cherish.

"I am grateful to Alpine for accommodating my wish to pursue other opportunities which may (and I hope that they will) arise in the future."

Brivio leaving Alpine marks another significant personnel reshuffle within the team in 2023, which included CEO Laurent Rossi being moved aside to be replaced by Philippe Krief.

Team boss Otmar Szafnauer and sporting director Alan Permane were also ousted from their roles, while chief technical officer Pat Fry left for .

This all came as the Enstone-based Alpine team suffered its worst finish in the F1 constructors' table since 2017, having slid from fourth in 2022 to sixth.

Alpine has confirmed Julian Rouse will continue to oversee its Academy programme.

At this stage, it is unclear what Brivio's next career move will be.

Prior to helming Suzuki from 2013 ahead of its return to MotoGP full-time in 2015, Brivio acted as team manager at Yamaha from 2004 to 2010.

Brivio was instrumental in signing Valentino Rossi from Honda to join Yamaha from 2004, which ultimately resulted in four world titles for the marque in 2004, 2005, 2008 and 2009.

Rossi's arrival also ended Yamaha's 12-year title drought and returned it to race-winning ways in 2004 having gone without a single victory in 2003 – something that wouldn't happen again until this year.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alpine-convinced-2026-f1-chassis-rules-will-negate-any-engine-power-losses/10557184/
DATE: 2023

When the 2026-30 engine specification was being devised, both Audi and Porsche seemed ready to commit to the series. This increased the emphasis on sustainability and road relevancy. The outcome was a 50:50 power split between the internal combustion engine and the electrical output.

But as initial simulator data was provided to teams, concerns were raised about drivers having to slow suddenly on straights and needing to downshift gears due to the extreme battery regeneration required, which led to the 470bhp (350kW) of electric power dropping out.

Motorsport.com understands that the FIA has no plans to change the equal power split now teams are already dyno testing their next-generation engines.

Famin - interim boss of the Alpine race team and engine programme - therefore reckons the success of F1's next rule cycle depends on the chassis regulations, which are expected to radically cut drag and introduce active front and rear wings to help the cars perform in a straight line.

"I think we all share the concern," said Famin when asked by Motorsport.com about the pitfalls of relying too heavily on the electrified part of the hybrid powertrain.

"We are all working - Formula 1, the FIA, the teams, the PU manufacturers - to find the right final regulation for the cars.

Bruno Famin, Executive Director - Viry-Chatillon, Alpine F1 Team, Mike Krack, Team Principal, Aston Martin F1 Team, Alessandro Alunni Bravi, Team Representative, Alfa Romeo F1 Team, Christian Horner, Team Principal, Red Bull Racing, in the team princi

"I think the energy management, we can still work on that in the coming months. There is no hurry.

"What I have to say is that, now the PU technical regulation has been officialised quite a long time ago, one and a half years ago almost, all the PU manufacturers are working hard.

"They have made already very important choices in terms of the way we want to go, the technology we want to develop.

"Changing now won't be a good thing. It's not acceptable, clearly.

"But I'm convinced that we will find a way with the chassis technical regulation to make good cars, good sport."

F1 chiefs hit back at teams' complaints over their 2026 simulations, saying they were running with data that was months out of date compared to their own research.

The straight-line issues could also have come from teams simulating the new engines while still running with a current high-drag car model.

Due to the switch to a 50:50 power ratio, the maximum power from the internal combustion engine is expected to drop by 25% to around 500bhp. A move away from the current split turbocharger layout is also expected to significantly increase turbo lag.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/why-alpine-changed-an-f1-team-that-was-not-daring-enough/10556957/
DATE: 2023

The A523 was inconsistent, usually suffering at high-speed and low-downforce tracks. There were good moments, notably in Monaco, where  started and finished third, while team newcomer  matched that result in the high attrition Zandvoort race.

However, there were mediocre weekends that saw the cars running outside the top 10, and there were also too many retirements, with contact often playing a role – most unfortunately in Australia, where Gasly and Ocon tangled. Meanwhile, the overall points total fell from 173 to 120.

It was also a year of turmoil off the track.  CEO Laurent Rossi was shuffled sideways, and then over the Spa weekend, it was revealed that team principal Otmar Szafnauer and veteran sporting director Alan Permane had both been ousted. Co-incidentally, at the same time chief technical officer Pat Fry jumped ship to join .

All of that resulted in a reshuffle of responsibilities within the race team, while erstwhile Viry power unit boss Bruno Famin was named interim team principal, a role that now appears to have become more permanent.

On the positive side, in the wake of the changes, Renault CEO Luca de Meo visited Enstone and insisted in a speech to staff that he was fully committed to the Alpine project.

Meanwhile, much-needed factory upgrades were underway both there and at Viry. Things appeared to be gelling at the end of the season.

"The truth is that we're not where we wanted to be, for sure," says Famin. "That's very clear. But I think with the changes we made mid-season we untapped some potential in the people, I think people are much freer to propose things, to improve.

"I think that's especially true on the track side, where immediately I saw a change in the mindset. We promoted for example, [team manager] Rob Cherry and [chief mechanic] Jason Milligan, they are doing a very good job in proposing improvements, in making sure that their guys also propose things.

"I think all this potential was a bit capped until the end of July, and I'm very happy with that. It's true for the garage, it's true also for the track engineering, it's true for the strategy, and we are daring things we were not daring before.

"I'm very happy with that mindset. Of course, the car is still not the one we would like. But we scored more points per race in the second half of the season than in the first one, but we need to keep pushing to develop this momentum."

Famin's focus on people "not daring" is an intriguing one. It's not the first time that a team has related a change of personnel to the suggestion that staff were previously reluctant or afraid to offer ideas.

Bruno Famin, Vice president of Alpine Motorsport

Expanding on the theme, he says: "I think it seems that you have a tap on everything, nobody was daring. I don't know why, I am not a psychologist; I don't want to enter into detail on that one.

"But what is sure now is that to be performant with such a level of competition you need to use the potential of everybody, and you need to align the planets.

"Then we need to be good in extracting the performance of the car, we need to be good in developing the car, in developing the engine, and even if we don't have the best engine, maybe we don't have the best car, I think we can align the planets altogether to have a good car at the end of the story, and to have good results.

"Of course, it won't be for tomorrow, but the work now is to align the planets. Of course, there is the problem of the potential for improvement in the relations between Viry and Enstone, but to me it's a small part of the project, of the work we need to do."

That's a key task now for Famin. The summer break changes were followed by a busy schedule of races, and obviously his initial focus was on the race team.

Over the winter, he has time to get the factory staff on message in both the UK and France.

"We have a lot of talents, and we need to help them to bring new ideas in developing the car, but also in the way we work. And the idea is to develop the potential of the full team, to develop the potential of the car, and to get a better car and better results."

It's easy to talk about changing the collective mindset, but does it really work?

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Esteban Ocon, Alpine A523

By way of evidence, Famin relates an interesting case study of how the team reacted to a poor weekend in Monza knowing that a similar high-speed venue in Las Vegas was on the horizon.

"I think we can see one very good example where I have been very pleased is the Vegas result," he says. "Not for the fourth place – okay, we're happy to be fifth in quali and fourth in the race – but by the fact that Monza was very bad, it was a very bad result.

"But we took the time to analyse why, what happened, where have we been wrong there, and immediately to propose new things, because Vegas was quite similar in some points.

"We were at risk in Vegas, if we were not doing things. Immediately the team reacted, proposed some aero evolution, developed it, produced it, and we had it on the car. Just in time, but we had it, and it worked. Before it would have been okay, we are 17 in Monza, we are 17.

"But now we had a very strong reaction and a very positive reaction, and it paid off. The position at the end, the final result is the attitude which was very good. It's an example of things that already changed."

The big question is how long will it take to turn things around at Alpine. Szafnauer was granted 100 races by de Meo before his tenure was cut short, and even prior to that one of his predecessors, Cyril Abiteboul was working to a five-year plan that appeared to get extended.

Famin is adamant that he's not putting any numbers on his ambitions.

"I have no idea of how long it will take, and I don't want to fix a target," he says. "The objective for this winter and for next year will be to develop that attitude, that mindset, changing the culture. And again is not Viry against Enstone, it's the whole thing altogether.

"And to continue and to develop the momentum in order to make a better team, a better company and to be able to develop a better car. And then the result will come. How long it will take, I have no clue."

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

Esteban Ocon, Alpine A523

The two sites have been working together since 1995, apart from a single year in 2015 when Lotus switched to  power.

Over the years there's been a continuous effort to improve communications between the two sites and remove any sign of blame culture, and it is still ongoing.

"When I arrived in Viry, a bit more than one and half years ago I remember that some guys, not everybody, were telling me we have only one customer team now," he says. "What? It's not a customer team, it's our team, it's our works team!

"And when I arrived in Enstone I was sometimes hearing that with a Mercedes engine we will go faster. Now okay, the Mercedes engine is 15 kilowatts more for sure, but with a Mercedes engine there will be just no project and no Enstone anymore..."

Famin says he worked quickly to put an end to any such "them-and-us" thinking.

"There is a quite complex history, especially between Enstone and the Renault Group, that's the reality," he says. "Sold I don't know how many times, bought I don't know many times!

"And it makes things difficult for sure. But you know, relations between the power unit factory and the chassis factory, you can see it everywhere, it's not specific to the Alpine project.

"I think everybody is convinced now that we are one team, we have one project, and we have one goal."

Famin is adamant that Enstone staff are no longer citing the engine as a weak link.

"I don't hear it anymore," he says. "It's very clear. After I talked to quite a lot of people after Mr de Meo's speech, I can tell you, I'm sure that nobody will mention it anymore, and everybody knows perfectly what we have to do to improve the car.

"And it's not only one thing, it's not the aero, it's not the engine, it's not the tyres. It's so competitive, that you need to be good everywhere and to make things work well all together.

"Everybody knows that, and everybody is focused on that. And the people who are not happy with that, they are going out."

Photo by: Jake Grant /

Esteban Ocon, Alpine A523

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ocon-switches-to-war-mode-after-wasted-opportunity-in-f1-2023/10555503/
DATE: 2023

The Frenchman also insists that he will switch to “war mode” next year with an even greater focus on his racing and fewer distractions out of the cockpit.

Highlights of Ocon’s year were starting and finishing third in Monaco, and earning fourth place in Las Vegas from 16th on the grid.

However, he also suffered a series of non-finishes during the season, several of them after contact with other cars, on his way to finishing 12th in the world championship.

"I think there's been some very good things, some very good opportunities that we took,” he said when asked about his season. “But the consistency overall hasn't been there.

“And we had too many DNFs. That has cost us, I think it's nine DNFs in total, probably the most of any drivers.

“If you remove the issue we had with the gearbox in Singapore, and the contact with Oscar [Piastri] in Austin, we could have been in the top 10 in the championship. So that's why it's a little bit of a wasted opportunity."

Photo by: Steven Tee /

Esteban Ocon, Alpine F1 Team

Ocon insists that next season he will focus on his racing more than he was able to do this year.

"From January 2 until the first test I will be back fully into training camp,” he said. “I'm going to be more doing the way I was doing it in 2022, which is no life, flat out, only racing. We've been doing a lot of different things and activations outside the track this year.

“That's going to change next year. It's back to war mode and fully focused on the racing side. Before that there's going be the Christmas party of the team, there's going be some simulator work.

“I'm going be able to have a couple of days seeing my family that I haven't seen for a while. We're going to have some good times with friends, with Mick [Schumacher], with all my friends in December as well, and then it's fully focused on next year."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ocon-abu-dhabi-tyre-test-super-important-to-iron-out-weakness/10553029/
DATE: 2023

The Enstone outfit has suffered from inconsistent form this year, with a strong race in Las Vegas – where Ocon finished fourth – followed by a disappointing weekend at the Yas Marina track that saw both cars outside the points.

Ocon says that going straight into a test at a venue where the team struggled will help the team learn some lessons, with reserve driver Jack Doohan also providing input in the rookie car.

Although the testing is overseen by Pirelli the fact that regular 2023 tyres are being used as they are being carried into next season will give teams useful extra data.

"If it was a weekend like Las Vegas, it would not be worth very much for us, because we were competitive," Ocon said after the Abu Dhabi race. "But on a track where we struggled that much, there is a lot for us to understand.

"If we can pick up something before next year, why that was, then it's going to be a good thing. So that's why the test is going to be super important.

"I'm already thinking about it, already thinking about that five o'clock time where it's going to be almost dark, and try to figure out something."

Ocon stressed that the team has to use the opportunity to understand its rollercoaster form.

Photo by: Jake Grant /

Esteban Ocon, Alpine A523

"What is more important is for us to be understanding what has been happening this season, quite a lot of up and down in terms of performance, in terms of pace," he said. "Today we were not quick enough, unfortunately, to get into the top 10 and to score points.

"And the consistency, I think, is what we need to get better, clearly. So good opportunities that we took, as Monaco, as Las Vegas and stuff like that, but quite a lot we didn't, like Singapore and Austin.

"And if you take these two, we probably could have been in the top 10 in the championship in drivers'. And it's worth what it's worth, but clearly, it means that we didn't maximise the season.

"So it's going to be important to fix all of those things for next year, and start and be on top of them."

Ocon had been unwell heading into the Abu Dhabi weekend, spending two days in bed. After qualifying he admitted he was not yet at 100%, and he still wasn't fully fit for Sunday's race.

"I'm probably 98 now, I was probably 85 yesterday, so it's going in the right curve," he said. "Really the biggest challenge is always a test, the whole day in the car, when you don't feel great.

"So I'm glad that I'm starting to feel better, because it would be quite a tough one otherwise on Tuesday, and looking at how we struggled this weekend, it's going to be a very important test for us. So I'm looking forward to see what we can extract out of that."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alpine-lacked-enthusiasm-and-drive-to-progress-in-f1-fry/10551458/
DATE: 2023

Fry worked at the team in its Benetton days from 1987 to 1993, before embarking on a career that encompassed two spells at McLaren, and one at Ferrari.

He returned to the Enstone camp in 2020, but after contributing to the last three cars he decided to leave earlier this year.

By a coincidence of timing, his move to Williams became public on the same day that the sudden departures of team principal Otmar Szafnauer and sporting director Alan Permane were announced.

After a short gardening leave, he began work at Grove earlier this month.

Speaking for the first time since he left Alpine, Fry said the team made good progress during his stint there, but he sensed that further steps would be harder.

"I look back at the first three years I was there, and we improved Enstone, dramatically," he said when asked by Motorsport.com to explain his move. "Year-on-year, we built a better car.

"If you put the three cars next to each other, each one was a massive step. It's a credit for everyone there, the various teams were collaborating a huge amount better. I think everyone there should be proud of what we achieved for those three years.

"I guess I'd gone back there [thinking] to go back to the place you started your career and try and rebuild it. And I think we did really well. From a distant fifth, we were a solid fourth.

"But I didn't feel there was the enthusiasm or the drive to move forward beyond fourth.

Pat Fry, Williams Chief Technical Officer

"I decided at the start of March that I want to be pushing things forward, I don't just want to sit there and not be able to do things. So for me, that was time to stop and move on, really.?

"It's one of those things, I think as a company, they weren't almost set up to push hard enough, you can say you want to be first. But the difference between saying it and achieving it, is monumental, as we all know."

Asked to elaborate on what was lacking, he indicated that he was referencing parent company Renault rather than the race team.

"Enstone as such, the destiny that we were in charge of, we could control," he said. "And I think we did a good job.

"I'm not so sure that Otmar got a fair chance at fixing the place, because to some degree I think metaphorically, your hands are tied, I guess.

"But as I say, I think everyone there should be proud of what we achieved in those first three years.

"It's always a shame walking away from things. But I think for me, I'd taken them as far as I could. And it was time for me to put my feet up and sit in my garden!"

Fry said that after he had decided to leave Alpine, it took Williams team principal James Vowles two months to convince him to join.

"James had been talking to me for a little while, and it wasn't until another couple of months after that that I decided to come here," he said.

"I guess the thing that excites me about this opportunity is the board is fully on board with what it's going to take to move this place forward. They're willing to invest what it takes and support us in building a team.

"And again, it's a nice thing isn't it, to rebuild an old British icon. It's a bit like my romantic view of going back to Benetton, to rebuild them. So it's another exciting prospect."

He added: "James is pushing hard to try and improve this place. As I said the board is fully behind him moving the pace forward, and that's the thing that excites me, we're not going to be limited in what we can achieve.

"We just got to do the best we can in the time and move things forward."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/schumacher-consulted-vettel-on-2024-alpine-wec-seat/10550430/
DATE: 2023

Schumacher sat on the sidelines this year after losing his Haas F1 seat at the end of 2022, taking up a role as  reserve driver instead.

In 2024 the German will dovetail those duties with a full WEC campaign with Alpine's hypercar team, which was officially announced on Wednesday.

Schumacher revealed he had consulted his close friend and mentor Vettel about his next steps.

"I've briefly spoken with Sebastian about it," Schumacher said on Thursday in Abu Dhabi. "It has been a factor that I think he knows so much about motorsport, but it was also a very clear point for me to go and ask him about his opinion."

Schumacher said sitting out the 2023 season was "very tough", so it was a priority for him to find a competitive seat and stay race-fit.

"Very important," he replied when asked how crucial it was for him to go racing again. "Having to sit out the whole year has been tough. And I'm just excited to be back in the car and go race and have a new challenge.

"I'm a racing driver. I hadn't been out of racing 14 years previous to this, so it was definitely a clear choice and a clear direction that I wanted to be racing."

Schumacher will continue in his Mercedes reserve role as the team is equally keen for him to get back up to speed in a race car.

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Mick Schumacher, Reserve Driver, Mercedes-AMG

"Yeah, I think for them, it was very important for me to be back on the grid and keep the racecraft up to date," he acknowledged.

But it is understood Schumacher will still be prioritising his Mercedes duties should the team ever need to call upon him and he pointed out  understands his desire to return to F1 at some point.

"When you have these discussions outside of F1, I think everybody understands that if there's something opening in F1 that they will let you do it," the 24-year-old explained.

"In that sense, you can go in with a comfortable mindset in discussing what's happening next year. If, let's say, suddenly something changes, I doubt that they will hold you back from going to Formula 1."

The Mercedes role also helped steer his options for 2024, as a campaign in Japan's Super Formula or in IndyCar would have been less compatible with being on call for the Brackley squad.

"You always think about what's out there, what are the options, and you kind of try and make pro and contra list," he added.

"For me WEC was the one with the least contras and the most pros and it was pretty easy for me to decide that that was a championship to go to.

"I have [considered Super Formula] and I have also considered going west. But the thing is, if you do that, there is little chance of doing a double programme with F1."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alpine-assisting-2023-f1-engine-equalisation-plan-abandoned/10550229/
DATE: 2023

It is understood that  has withdrawn a series of proposed upgrades to its current engine as these did not gain full support from rival teams, which led to an FIA assessment of the situation being closed.

In July,  had been put before the F1 Commission after an FIA analysis of the performance levels of the currently frozen specification of power units indicated that Alpine’s Renault engine is approximately 15-25Kw (20-33hp) down on its closely matched rivals – ,  and Honda.

The FIA called this a “notable performance gap” in a statement released after the F1 Commission met at the Belgian Grand Prix.

The governing body went on to state that the F1 Commission had “discussed ways to remedy this discrepancy” and that “the power unit manufacturers represented at the Commission agreed to give a mandate to the Power Unit Advisory Committee to consider this topic and bring proposals back to the Commission”.

This move followed the FIA checking engine performance levels over the first half of the 2023 season, as had been agreed at the start of the current power unit rules cycle in 2022 that this year would mark a point where engines could possibly be altered.

This would be done to avoid a major performance difference “being locked in for an extended period”, per the FIA statement.

But for any changes to go ahead for any engine manufacturer, they required what has been framed as ‘good faith’ agreement apparently arranged between all the teams and engine builders back in 2021 when the engine freeze was first agreed.

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Esteban Ocon, Alpine A523

At the Qatar GP last month, interim Alpine team principal Bruno Famin said there had been “no progress” on the engine equalisation plan and that for his squad “priority number one is to have a good 2026 power unit”, when F1’s next engine and chassis rules reset occurs.

But it can now be revealed that Alpine has since requested that any move to consider future changes to ensure engine parity across the field under the current rules cycle be abandoned and this has been accepted by the FIA.

Alpine is understood to have decided that since it had become clear the team did not have the full support from its rivals, despite what had previously been arranged under the good faith understanding, it was better to direct any resources it would have been spent on improving the output of its current engine instead on work to the new engine rules.

These will put more emphasis on sustainable fuel and electric power in F1 engines that are coming in just over two years’ time.

In a statement issued to Motorsport.com after this publication contacted the team for comment regarding the latest development on the engine equalisation story, Famin said: “Following discussions with the FIA regarding engine equalisation, we, as a power unit manufacturer, actively made the decision not to take the matter further, making note of the positions held by the FIA and other power unit manufacturers.

“The topic of engine equalisation was initially brought forward by the FIA during the F1 Commission meeting in July, after which we reviewed what options we had and what performance upgrades could be made in line with the regulations and the gentlemen’s agreement between the PU manufacturers.

“We quickly reached the conclusion that it was not worth our time and effort.

“Moreover, for such a small performance gain, it would be a distraction in our efforts towards the development of the 2026 PU project.”

It is understood that the plan to abandon the assessment of engine parity will be formally tabled at the next F1 Commission meeting at this weekend’s Abu Dhabi race.

When contacted, the FIA did not wish to comment for this story.

Additional reporting by Jonathan Noble

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ocon-explains-why-he-didnt-follow-hold-position-f1-team-order/10549695/
DATE: 2023

The Frenchman pulled off an impressive charge from 16th on the grid in Las Vegas to finish fourth on Saturday in what was one of his best race performances of the year.

But it was not without some intrigue after television footage showed him making an overtake on  team-mate  just moments after he had received a radio message from the pitwall telling him to ‘hold position.’

While Ocon has been known to be pretty ruthless in battling team-mates in the past, he has revealed that this situation was nothing to do with trying to get one up on Gasly. Instead, it was explained through him not properly hearing what had been said to him on the radio.

Speaking to Sky about what happened, Ocon said: “I think Pierre was on older tyres at the time and I got told 'hold position.’

“But at the time, I didn't know it was 'hold position'. The only thing I heard was ‘position’ because I was basically making the move while I got told.

“Obviously if the team had asked for me to give back the position, I would have done so straight away.”

Ocon explained how his feelings after a brilliant push through the field to finish fourth was in complete contrast to the despair he felt after qualifying.

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Esteban Ocon, Alpine A523, Oscar Piastri, McLaren MCL60, Kevin Magnussen, Haas VF-23

“It’s crazy emotions,” he said. “I was probably at the lowest point of the season [after qualifying]. Very, very disappointed.

“It's been six races, I would say since Singapore, where we didn't seem to catch very much of a break. We had all sorts of incidents and tricky races. But we never stopped believing that we were doing a good job as a team and things were going to come. But it took a while to come.”

While Ocon enjoyed one of his best races of the year, team-mate Gasly had a more frustrating time as he fell down the order from fourth on the grid to finish 11th.

He said his afternoon was derailed by graining on the hard tyre, which he found himself unable to manage.

“There were quite a few things that were going on, but I think the main thing was just that after five or six laps, I grained the hard tyre,” he said.

“From there on it just never recovered and it was just a very painful long last 25 laps from there on.

“It’s obviously frustrating because the start was great. I started in the right train behind George [Russell] and Charles [Leclerc]. I knew there was a big opportunity on the table, but after, on that hard tyre, it was just pretty much a nightmare.”

Quotes from Mandy Curi and Adam Cooper

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-las-vegas-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp1/1123648/
DATE: 2024

And with that, it is time to head off for a break. We'll be back at 5:45am GMT ahead of FP2 but for now, here is the full session report from the first outing of the weekend. As ever, thanks for your company!

Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes F1 W15

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

It should be noted, even Hamilton's session best time was roughly three seconds off the pole lap of 12 months ago, highlighting the evolution that is yet to come in the following sessions.

By the time FP1 came to a close, both the air and track temperatures had dropped by three degrees. This fall is expected to continue into FP2, which takes place at a similar time to both qualifying and the race.

"That was the first session we've had since Toto Wolff's comments on Hamilton's "shelf-life" emerged - the Mercedes boss has since moved to explain what he meant - but for the seven-time world champion that was a response that will have had him smiling under his helmet, while his face flashed up the Vegas night as it shone from the Sphere"

"I know it was only first practice, but that was another unimpressive run for Sergio Perez. His best time is only good enough for 10th place on the time sheets. Time is running out for him to prove he deserves to retain his seat at Red Bull next year. The other aspect is that Red Bull need him to start delivering points if they are to claw back their way into contention to win the constructors' championship."

Completing practice starts on the grid, Verstappen has massively overshot the grid box. Were that to happen in the race, he would be in hot water for that one.

Hamilton's final lap was 0.396s up on Russell. He has 0.953s over Norris in third and all other drivers are over a second back.

And Hamilton moves to the top with a 1m35.001s. With no one else on a hot lap, he will exit the car as the fastest man in the session.

Hamilton is into the final sector of his final effort, as he goes purple in sector one.

The chequered flag flies and Sainz is the first driver to take it.

"So far, so good for the new FIA race director, Rui Marques. Not major incidents like we saw last year so he has been able to easy himself into the big seat left vacant by Niels Wittich, who left the role after the Sao Paulo Grand Prix. We have Toto Wolff in the press conference later, so it will be good to get his thoughts on the shock departure and what he makes of Marques."

Hamilton goes top, but Russell is faster still with a third consecutive flying lap, moving to a 1m35.397s.

And we're about to see what Hamilton can do with soft, as he begins his first timed effort on the compound.

As the click ticks below five minutes, Russell returns Mercedes to the top with a 1m35.619s.

"It is another cold one in Vegas tonight, as soon as the sun disappears the temperature really does drop. While the FP1 action might not set pulses racing, race organisers will be happy to come through unscathed after last year. The fans who have come out for the first running are also making the most of it...maybe just to warm up!"

We're seeing a decent number of drivers in the pits now, we're probably going to see some warm tyres bolted on for a round of closing flying laps to end the session.

Hamilton is the only driver not to have tried soft tyres yet in this session.

10 minutes remain in FP1.

Up from 14th to sixth for Verstappen, but he remains 0.807s off the pace of Norris.

Verstappen reports a "connection issue" with his steering wheel, complaining that the radio "went on by itself". A peculiar problem, for sure.

McLaren has shown its hand for the first time this weekend, with Norris the first driver below 96s, putting in a 1m35.954s, as team-mate Piastri improves to fourth, sandwiching the Ferrari drivers.

Hamilton and Russell are out again but on medium tyres.

But he's immediately forced back by Ferrari team-mate Sainz who hammers in a 1m36.218s.

The first change at the top for a while, as Leclerc now puts in a 1m36.430s to better Hamilton by 0.497s.

And we've had confirmation of a five-place grid penalty for Bottas, after the Sauber driver has had a fourth energy store fitted to his car.

Yellow flags were briefly displayed again there - no explanation why quite yet.

On softs, Leclerc puts in a purple middle and personal bests in the other two sectors to move up to second, behind only Hamilton.

Magnussen is on it once again, moving up to third for Haas. This is the freedom of a driver knowing they aren't driving for their future.

"We have a voice but we don't have a vote," McLaren Racing CEO tells Sky Sports on the changing of the F1 race director. He hopes the move is a "step forward".

On the plus side, no drain issues to this point!

From 10th to third for Norris. The times have largely stabilised for the moment, but with another round of fresh rubber, the picture could all change very quickly.

Highlighting the pit entry issue, Albon has now been shown the same black and white flag as his Williams team-mate for crossing the white line.

"The pit entry line is almost impossible to see," reports Russell. With all the lines of the road, it is hugely difficult to pick out.

As per Chandhok's suggestion, a thick yellow line would clear up any confusion there.

An odd problem for Piastri here, as his McLaren refuses to switch off as his mechanics push the car back into the garage. It's eventually fixed, but as per the roll hoop lights, it was an electrical issue.

Currently, Mercedes enjoy a 1-2 led by Hamilton, with Leclerc leading a Ferrari 3-4. Championship players Norris and Verstappen are 10th and 9th respectively.

While the track is never going to fall completely silent during a session this weekend, half the grid have returned to the pits, resulting in a quieter track.

The first black and white flag of the weekend goes to Colapinto. Currently in 18th, he failed to follow the race director's event notes and crossed the white line on pit entry.

Proving how difficult the conditions are, Verstappen runs deep at the end of The Strip following a heavy lock up - his Red Bull screaming as it slid past the cameras.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alpine-newest-driver-franco-colapinto/10648463/
DATE: 2024

After a disappointing start to his Formula 1 career, Australian racer  has been replaced at the  F1 team by reserve driver . The switch will see Colapinto race for the French team from F1’s next outing at Imola, for at least five rounds.

The 21-year-old racer joined Alpine as a reserve driver earlier this year, having previously raced for the  F1 team in 2024 after he was called on to replace another underperforming driver, .

Born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on 27 May 2003, Colapinto kicked off his karting career aged 10. The youngster began racing in his home country, where he competed until 2017 when he made the move to Europe. A year later, Colapinto’s time in karts came to an end following victory in the 2018 Youth Summer Olympics.

2018 was also the year that Colapinto made the step up to the F4 Spanish Championship, where he raced for Drivex School, for the first time. The Argentinian racer finished ninth in his first season and followed this with overall victory in the series a year later.

For 2020, Colapinto took another step up the racing ladder with a move to Formula Renault Eurocup and the Toyota Racing Series, finishing third overall in both series.

Budget constraints forced Colapinto’s next move, and from 2021 he raced in sportscars and entered the Asian and European Le Mans Series, as well as the 24 Hours of Le Mans.

The switch didn’t last long, however, and Colapinto contested his first Formula 3 season in 2022 with Van Amersfoort Racing. After taking two race wins in his debut season and finishing ninth in the standings, he was signed on as a Williams Academy driver for 2023 and made the switch to MP Motorsport in F3.

Two race wins and a fourth-place finish overall secured his promotion to F2 for the following season, and Colapinto also had his first taste of F1 machinery at a post-season test in Abu Dhabi in 2023.

Franco Colapinto, MP Motorsport

Photo by: Formula Motorsport Ltd

Colapinto’s F2 career got off to a slow start in 2024, but his fortunes turned around following an in-season test in Spain. He then picked up his first win in the sprint race at Imola and became a regular challenger at the front.

Williams continued Colapinto's preparations for F1 and he completed FP1 at the 2024 British Grand Prix, which allowed him to get acquainted with the Williams FW46. Soon, he was given the Williams seat full-time after the Grove-based team decided to part ways with American racer Sargeant.

This gave Colapinto nine races to prove himself at Williams, which he did with a best finish of eighth at the 2024 Azerbaijan Grand Prix. This sparked rumours of a move to the Red Bull camp for the 2025 season, but the Argentinian's inexperience showed with a pair of violent crashes in Las Vegas and Brazil, and this put Red Bull off his scent.

The 21-year-old was subsequently signed by Alpine as a reserve driver for the 2025 season, where he worked in the simulator and stood on the sidelines waiting for his time to shine.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/esteban-ocon-defends-controversial-2024-monaco-crash-didnt-cost-the-team-anything/10701630/
DATE: 2024

, who left  at the end of the 2024 season to join Haas, has addressed the controversial crash with his teammate at the time, , in Monaco.

The two French drivers crashed on the opening lap of the 2024 Monaco Grand Prix when Ocon went for an aggressive overtake of Gasly which ended with the pair crashing and the former going airborne. Both cars were left damaged. Gasly went on to secure his first point of the season with a tenth-place finish, but Ocon was forced to retire from the race.

Gasly laid the blame wholly on Ocon after the race, :

“Right now, I must say I’m very pleased and very relieved for the whole team. We knew Monaco was a place where there would be an opportunity, even if we struggled with the car since the start of the year.

“We managed to seize the opportunity yesterday with that first Q3 and it was important to capitalise on that, and that’s what we did. Unfortunately, it wasn’t as peaceful as we had planned. I don’t want to go into too much details, but these things should not happen.

“It was a clear instruction from the team on what to do, what we were supposed to do, and this wasn’t respected [by Ocon]. I’m just glad we managed to get out of it with only some front wing damage and a couple of things, and luckily with the red flag we managed to repair it.”

Ocon also took responsibility for the crash, posting to social media:

Esteban Ocon, Alpine A524

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar / Motorsport Images

“Today’s incident was my fault, the gap was too small in the end and I apologise to the team on this one,” he said. “Hoping for a deserved points-finish for the team today.”

Now, when speaking to Motorsport.com ahead of the 2025 season, Ocon defended the crash, claiming that it was blown out of proportion:

"Even though Monaco happened, it didn't cost the team anything. I raised my hand. I would have liked things to have gone differently, for sure. But, yeah, we've done our best every single time. And I think, yeah, we got the maximum out of the car, you know, throughout these two seasons."

"As soon as there's a headline, people like to jump on it," he says. "But yeah, what can I say? I think, from my perspective, we did what we needed to do [with each team] and took the opportunities when they came. And we worked well together – with Pierre, with Fernando, with Daniel. We also worked well with Checo. We ticked the boxes, in the end. So that's the most important thing. And I'm not a guy who's here to crash into my team-mate. That's bullshit."

Ocon has signed with the Haas F1 team for the 2025 season where he will drive alongside rookie Oliver Bearman.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-race-1123853/1123854/
DATE: 2024

and  will launch from the front row of the grid in Abu Dhabi as  looks to seal a first constructors' title since 1998.

, who secured McLaren's latest crown of any description with his maiden 2008 drivers' title, makes his final bow for  before his switch to , while , , ,  and  all start in F1 for potentially the last time.

The race gets under way at 13:00 GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-bahrain-pre-season-test-day-1-1121307/1121308/
DATE: 2024

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB20

Photo by: Steven Tee / Motorsport Images

Mercedes F1 W15 last flap

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

C3? We can see a few more than that! Mercedes opted for 25 sets of the medium tyre compound for the Bahrain test, more than any other team, having decided to take only two sets each of the C1 and C2. As the Bahrain track surface is so rough, the C3 will serve as next weekend's softest compound - so the team has already got an eye on the season opener.

Photo by: Jake Boxall-Legge

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Spot the inlets either side of the top of Verstappen's helmet. Red Bull's design department certainly wasn't relaxing over the winter.

Red Bull Racing RB20 detail

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-qatar-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1123762/
DATE: 2024

After handing victory in the Formula 1 Qatar Grand Prix sprint race to  team-mate  on the final lap,  has another shot at glory in qualifying.

Having repaid Piastri for his own sacrificial gesture in the Brazilian GP sprint, Norris will aim to underline his position as the faster of the papaya drivers by emulating the pace that enabled him to pip  to top spot in sprint qualifying on Friday.

But with Russell keen to strike back at McLaren after being frustrated by Piastri's defence in the sprint, the Las Vegas winner cannot be ruled out of the conversation for the penultimate pole position of the year.

Qualifying gets under way in Losail at 18:00 GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-las-vegas-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp3/1123670/
DATE: 2024

With that, we'll take a breather for a coffee break before firing up all over again for qualifying which starts at 6am GMT. Until then, go well!

George Russell, Mercedes F1 W15

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

What did we learn from that session ahead of qualifying? Well, Mercedes still appears strong and the track conditions will ramp up with every lap, so it could be a case of the last to set a lap time may triumph.

Oscar Piastri, McLaren MCL38

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar / Motorsport Images

So, a flurry of very late action to round out FP3 topped by Russell from Piastri, Sainz, Norris, Verstappen and Hamilton.

Anyway, the other 18 drivers minus Perez and Stroll do get to enjoy an out-lap, lap to the grid for a practice start and then an in-lap. Not much to learn, but it still sees the RBs almost collide as Tsunoda gets his braking wrong and nearly goes into the rear of Lawson.

Perez misses the opportunity to get out on track at the back of the car train, so he has to park at the end of the pitlane facing the red light. He's the only one to miss out and it was an odd one given he left a big gap to Russell ahead. He could've made it.

Stroll has come to a stop just outside the Venetian, as the car's red lights turn off so the marshals can recover the Aston Martin. The session will resume - for exactly 60 seconds to be precise.

Stroll's car totally switched off before he came to a halt and the red lights are flashing on his Aston Martin to indicate it isn't safe to touch yet. That could mean the session is effectively over with three minutes to go.

Not for long though, as a red flag is shown with Stroll parked at the side of the track with his Aston Martin smoking.

But just like that Verstappen is suddenly shuffled down to fifth as Russell goes fastest from Piastri, Sainz and Norris. The lap times keep on coming.

"The grip felt miles better," Verstappen reports on team radio. It certainly seems Red Bull has dialled in that car over the last hour.

Verstappen goes fastest of anyone with a 1m34.137s - 0.081s up on Russell. Problems, what problems?

Perez only manages 11th and 1.4s off the outright pace. Where does Verstappen stack up?

Verstappen has bailed out of his first push lap on the softs as Perez carries on. At the front, Russell takes over top spot again with a 1m34.218s.

Aaaaand there they are. Right on cue, Verstappen and Perez come out in formation and both on fresh soft tyres. Let's see what they've got ahead of qualifying.

There are 15 minutes left in FP3 but still no sign of the Red Bull drivers who haven't ventured out on the soft tyres yet.

After seeing so many empty seats for practice two, it is encouraging to see more spectators here for FP3. After asking around, it seems the locals are not bothered about practice, unlike some of the more-established markets. Organisers say they expect a full house on Saturday, so that's where their focus is. It does make it valid to suggest that perhaps, in order to increase ticket sales, Vegas should be selected as a location for the sprint races. At least it would get the punters in.

Russell briefly takes top spot only for his team-mate Hamilton to reply with a 1m34.341s - once again it is looking promising for Mercedes in these cold and slippery conditions. Can it last until the sessions that really matter?

A switch to Hamilton's onboard camera shows he is pushing on the softs, as he goes fastest overall with a 1m34.565s.

Plenty of lap time improvements elsewhere, as Magnussen goes fastest with a 1m34.883s for Haas.

"This is... I can't drive it. I'm gonna crash. My left front is completely f******," Verstappen says, stating his case to pit. Red Bull duly obliges and calls in its driver.

"It's only getting worse. The car is undriveable," Verstappen reports on team radio. "Just a couple more laps please Max. Have to try and make the best of this," Lambiase replies to his driver. That came after a lock-up at Turn 5.

All 20 drivers are on track so suddenly there is a fair bit of traffic to navigate. Hamilton gets caught behind Alonso and then Tsunoda to restrict his opening time lap to 1m36.590s.

Norris and then Piastri take over at the top, the Australian posting a 1m35.759s for top spot in the McLaren 1-2.

Tsunoda blows that theory away with a 1m37.517s to go three seconds quicker than Verstappen. A high number of drivers are on out-laps now so this track will ramp up rapidly over the final 34 minutes.

Norris posts a 1m41.653s to slot into third behind both Red Bulls. Another warm-up lap or is the track really this much slower? Verstappen improves to go top but only with a 1m40.588s.

Norris has come out to be our yardstick, running on the soft tyres, as Perez and Verstappen both improve by a handful of tenths on their next laps.

Verstappen's opening effort is a leisurely 1m42.180s on the medium tyres. It seems hard to believe track conditions mean nine seconds slower than FP2, but let's see what others can produce before drawing conclusions.

Verstappen has had enough of the hanging around in the pits and nips out for the first time in the session, joined by team-mate Perez. Given all the trouble-free running yesterday - just the one short red flag caused by Albon stoppage in FP2 - it perhaps isn't surprising there isn't much track action early in FP3.

The hard tyre scrubbing continues for a handful of drivers, meaning it is just Tsunoda on track at present. And still just the one lap time overall which came from Perez earlier.

It may only be a practice session but Red Bull and Max Verstappen, in particular, will be keen to show improvement on their performance yesterday. We know the wing is an issue but with everything else now turned up to qualifying spec, let’s see where they actually sit in terms of pace.

Lawson, who has also joined the fun scrubbing in his hard tyres, says it is very slippery on track. The circuit reopened for public traffic between FP2 and this session, so it will be a case of rebuilding the grip levels and cleaning the racing line.

"Ah. Miles off," Perez says over team radio after his first timed lap of 1m41.941s. Given FP2's top times were in the 1m33s, he's made an accurate summation.

Both Aston Martins are also in action early while the rest stay comfortable and warm in the garages. Handy, as it is 14.9C air temperature and given the timing of the sessions that is the warmest it'll be all night.

Zhou nips out for an early exploration of the Las Vegas Strip, taking in the sights during his installation lap. He's joined by Perez and Hamilton, with the Red Bull driver sporting a visibly trimmed rear wing - it looks like someone's taken a bite out of it.

Off we go for final practice!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

While at Red Bull there is concern over its rear wing being unsuited to the demands of the Las Vegas track ,but that they are stuck with it for the weekend. .

Norris took second in FP2, just 0.011s off Hamilton, but . However, digging a little deeper, those concerns aren't strictly showing in the data - .

Lando Norris, McLaren MCL38

Photo by: Zak Mauger / Motorsport Images

The nightmare of manhole covers coming loose and delayed running were a distant memory, as the opening day of track action was a relatively straightforward and low key affair. Hamilton topped both FP1 and FP2 with Mercedes starting strongly in Vegas with Russell second in FP1 and third in FP2 too - .
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alpine-did-the-unthinkable-with-6th-in-the-2024-constructors-championship-gasly/10680856/
DATE: 2024

An often painful 2024 Formula 1 season has come to a remarkable end for Alpine. With Pierre Gasly's seventh placed finish in the season finale in Abu Dhabi securing the team six points, the French team clinched sixth place in the constructors' championship, ahead of , , , and .

Speaking to reporters after the race, Gasly said he was “extremely happy,” admitting that a sixth-placed finish would have seemed “unthinkable” earlier in the season.

The 28-year-old also noted how the peaks and troughs of this season have been extreme, adding that the start to the year had been “very tough for all of us in the team with an underperforming car.”

Esteban Ocon, Alpine F1 Team, Pierre Gasly, Alpine F1 Team, at the drivers parade at the Qatar GP.

Photo by: Dom Romney / Motorsport Images

Such an outcome looked all but impossible back in the spring, after Alpine’s disastrous start to the season. Through the first five rounds of the 2024 championship, neither Gasly nor his now-former teammate Esteban Ocon had managed a top-10 finish.

While there were signs of a mid-season resurgence with a string of ninth and tenth-placed finishes, it turned out there were more stormy tides spent at the back of the field to follow before the team could finally reemerge with a podium challenger.

The true turning point came in Sao Paulo when Ocon finished second and Gasly third for Alpine’s first-ever double podium. For Gasly, a fifth-placed finish in Qatar followed by Sunday’s excellent effort in Abu Dhabi capped off an excellent finish to what was a challenging year.

“Coming here, there were three targets: to get sixth in the constructors, tenth in the drivers, and keep my nose clean so we’re still on $0 [in] damage,” he said. “And, yeah, we completed all the targets.”

Gasly, who remarkably avoided any self-inflicted crash damage this season, finished just one point above Haas’  in the driver’s standings.

Ocon, who was dropped in favor of his 2025 replacement  for Abu Dhabi, finished 14th in the drivers' standings.

2025 will mark Gasly's third season with the team where he will continue his chase for a sixth F1 podium and second career win. Meanwhile, Ocon is set to join Haas, where he'll partner Ferrari youngster .

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/video/mclaren-secures-constructors-title-as-norris-takes-the-win-abu-dhabi-gp-race-reaction/657489/?filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Formula+1+2024&filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4660&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Alpine&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=20186
DATE: 2024

Ben Hunt and Jonathan Noble closes out the 2024 season as they review the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix. Together, they review Lando Norris' dominant victory and with it, McLaren's first Constructors Championship since 1998, the pitfalls they had to face such as Oscar Piastri being spun out on the opening lap, whether they've been the best team across the season, and Charles Leclerc's 16-place comeback to get on the podium. There's also a discussion on Pierre Gasly sealing sixth in the Constructors for Alpine, as well as looking ahead to the Young Driver Test and the potential for a five-team title fight in 2025.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1123842/
DATE: 2024

The F1 season reaches a climax in Abu Dhabi with  and  set to battle it out for glory on the constructors' championship.

Off-track, a war of words between  and  has stolen the spotlight from drivers, including , who are either racing with teams for the last time or are making potentially their final appearance in the category.

topped first practice but picked up a 10-place grid penalty for a battery change, as  headed a McLaren 1-2 in FP2 and  repeated the McLaren dominance in FP3.

Qualifying starts at 2:00pm GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/who-is-driving-at-the-2025-f1-abu-dhabi-post-season-test/10783370/
DATE: 2025

The 2025 Formula 1 competitive season may be over, but track activity is not: all 20 cars will be in action in  on Tuesday.

Each team will have one mule car driven by one or both race drivers, featuring Pirelli’s new range of rubber for the 2026 season, with slightly smaller and narrower tyres.

Even the tyres’ construction will be significantly different due to F1’s new technical regulations. When Pirelli asked all F1 teams to submit their predicted downforce levels for the end of 2026, there was much disparity between their simulations.

“It was more difficult for teams to estimate the performance of their 2026 cars at the end of the season,” Pirelli’s Mario Isola explained. “But we needed those simulations because we needed to design a product that is lasting for one year. If they just give us an idea of the car performance at the start of the season, and if we don't know what the rate of development will be, then it's difficult for us.”

Pirelli has therefore developed a broad spectrum of compounds, in case the real-world downforce levels turn out to be higher or lower than predicted by the teams.

The mule cars are 2025-spec machinery that has been modified to drop down closer to next year’s much lower downforce levels, though it cannot be fully accurate, partly because the 2026 cars will feature active aerodynamics.

“We have discussed some limitations with the teams, based on those first tests,” Isola added. “For example, we decided to avoid overloading the tyres on the straights. We were testing with a speed limit at 290km/h or 300km/h, because clearly they will have a lot less downforce on the straights next year. So we agreed on some methodologies for testing with the teams. Thanks to these methodologies it was possible to have feedback from the mule cars that was a little bit more coherent, more close.”

Valtteri Bottas, Mercedes, Mexico Pirelli Test

The test won’t change the 2026 compounds in any case, as the tyres have already been homologated for next season; it will simply help Pirelli choose the compounds for next year.

The Italian manufacturer has brought all compounds to Yas Marina Circuit except for the hardest dry-weather tyre, the C1, and the full-wet.

Meanwhile, the other 10 cars will be driven by rookies as part of the traditional end-of-season young drivers’ test. Only competitors with two grand prix starts or fewer are allowed to take part.

A number of 2025 race drivers will be skipping Tuesday's test.

This includes outgoing Red Bull racer  as well as his team-mate  and Mercedes' , with those teams giving all the track time to youngsters  and  respectively. Verstappen said he was “very happy” to miss out.

will field only , with  missing out.

will be the only test driver handling a mule car, with neither  nor  in action for Aston Martin – which is no surprise as far as the Spanish veteran is concerned, as he was looking forward to not driving the AMR25 any longer.

Ryo Hirakawa, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Many teams will field the same rookie as they did in Free Practice 1.

F2 frontrunners Dino Beganovic, Luke Browning and Jak Crawford will drive for the ,  and Aston Martin squads they are linked to.

Another F2 driver will be in action with his parent outfit,  at Alpine; the Enstone-based outfit will again loan out  to .

Now racing in IMSA with Cadillac,  reserve driver  will drive the Silver Arrow, while Toyota WEC driver and Haas reserve driver  will drive the VF-25.

Red Bull will entrust its protege  with the RB21 after the Japanese racer won the Super Formula championship. 2025 IndyCar runner-up and long-time  driver  will handle the title-winning F1 car.

Most importantly,  will gain important experience ahead of his graduation to Formula 1 with  in 2026.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-race-1126198/1126199/
DATE: 2025

I think that's a good place to leave it. Make sure to keep an eye out for our other post-race reaction, but let's give you one more Lando pic because this is his moment.

And who knows if he'll go back-to-back, because everything promises to look a lot different in the new era.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Michael Potts / LAT Images via Getty Images

Norris added on Sky: "I have to give it to Oscar, he's driven incredible. At some point he's going to get the better of me."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

More from an emotional Norris on Sky: "It's pretty cool. It's pretty insane. It's hard for me just to say it. I feel like I don't want to say it just yet, I'll wake up tomorrow and say it. It's been a season of ups and downs - has it been a perfect season? Absolutely not. Has it been by anybody? No.

"I'm happy I cried. Not many things in my life have made me cry, but today was one."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Rose / Formula 1 via Getty Images

It was all tears in parc ferme.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Andrea Stella, McLaren

Photo by: Bryn Lennon / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Sky now showing a montage of Norris' career up to now. It's mad where the time has gone!

World champion at the age of 26 in his seventh season of F1.

This is a very sweet interview with Lando's mum on Sky. Speaks of watching her grandchild in the Nativity play on Tuesday before flying to Abu Dhabi on Thursday. Mentions of Lando being in the garden driving the tractor as a kid, before Hamilton is caught in the media pen congratulating Norris.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Rudy Carezzevoli / Getty Images

Lando's mum on Sky Sports: "Emotionally drained, but very happy."

He'll be looking at a much bigger trophy soon...

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Rose / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

The Stella-Brown bromance!

Andrea Stella, McLaren, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Carlos Sainz: "Very happy for him. I think he's a great F1 driver. I think unbelievably fast.

"But with his particular way of going about life and things, as much as he's got criticised a lot during the last few years for being how he is, he's world champion and everyone can keep dreaming about being F1 world champion while he goes about his own way and does things his own way.

"So I'm extremely happy for him because he must have felt a lot of pressure over the last few weekends and he managed to pull it off."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

It's times like this where pictures speak a thousand words

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Brown going over to man he once compared to a villain from a horror film...

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando and his bosses.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Andrea Stella, McLaren, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Zak Brown: "If you beat Max and Red Bull, you've done a great job."

He then adds that Piastri is a "future world champion".

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Let's hear more from Lando.

"It's incredible. Pretty surreal. I dreamed of this for a long, long time - everyone does - a lot goes into a season like this. A lot of ups, a lot of downs, but none of that matters if you try to come out on top. The last seven, eight years I've been with McLaren, the last 17, 18 years of my life I've been chasing this dream.

"My best performances this year came when I needed them the most."

The moment Lando crossed the line to become champion.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

But queue the champagne, as Norris does his trademark celebration as a world champion for the first time!

Piastri lifts the runner-up trophy on the podium. It does look like he's trying to put on a brave face - a penny for his thoughts etc.

PR email of the day, dropped almost the second the grand prix finished. A street in Somerset, Lando's home county, will be named in his honour. It's almost like they had that planned and ready to go!

Lifts his head up to the sky as a Formula 1 world champion...

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Here comes the podium as world champion Lando Norris is first to greet the steps!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

The second Autosport young driver winner to win the F1 world championship after Jenson Button...

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Norris: "I've not cried in a while. DIdn't think I'd cry but I did. It's a long journey, a long journey."

Speaking of the championship, here is how the top three finishes:

1. Lando Norris - 423 points

2. Max Verstappen - 421 points

3. Oscar Piastri - 410 points

It's hugmania on that pit straight. Zak, Sainz, Russell, mechanics, family, all wanting a bit of Lando.

But the cameras did catch a nice moment when Norris' mum headed over to Piastri to console the other McLaren driver, who finishes this year third in the championship.

As is customary in Abu Dhabi, Norris is now doing doughnuts down the start-finish straight...

Verstappen: "I'm definitely not disappointed. I'm proud of everyone, we never give up."

A tearful Norris: "I love you guys, thanks for everything - you deserve it. I love you mum, I love you dad."

Camera pans straight to the McLaren garage, where Lando's mum is crying. These moments are the ones to savour...

LANDO NORRIS IS THE 2025 FORMULA 1 WORLD CHAMPION
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1126190/
DATE: 2025

That's us for now! We shall be back for race day when a world champion will be crowned...

Piastri: "The last lap in Q3 was pretty good, there's wasn't a lot left in that. Max has looked very quick in the long runs, let's see how much pace is a factor tomorrow."

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

Norris: "Max did a good job, so congrats to him. We did everything we could, my lap was pretty good so I'm happy. We just weren't fast enough today."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

Verstappen: "Of course incredibly happy to be in first, that's the only thing we can do."

Should he win tomorrow then he will match Hamilton's record of five Abu Dhabi GP victories.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

That also means Verstappen finishes the year with the most poles of any driver:

Verstappen - 8Norris - 7Piastri - 6Russell - 2Leclerc - 1

Max Verstappen is on pole for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, beating runner-up Lando Norris by 0.201s - sublime pace from the Red Bull driver, who even improved on his second lap without a tow.

Oscar Piastri is third but, I'm sure to Max's dismay, George Russell is only fourth. As it stands, Norris is world champion.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Two sectors down and neither McLaren driver is faster than Max...

Looks like there won't be any tow with Max going out before Tsunoda. Russell is eyeing one up from the world champion though and maybe Max will willingly give him one if it means getting the Mercedes man above Norris...

So it's Verstappen on provisional pole while team-mate Tsunoda is 10th. One does wonder what Red Bull does with Yuki in these final runs. Is it worth making him do a proper lap, or just give Max another tow?

Piastri splits the pair but Russell only manages fifth. Good job by Verstappen, but he needs more help from his rivals to push Norris down.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

It allows the four-time champion to set a 1m22.295s and it is four tenths quicker than Norris. Wow!

Though it must be said Lando was on used softs with Verstappen on fresh.

Tsunoda gives Verstappen a tow in sector two. Think that was planned don't you?

Here we are, the final quali session of the year and it's actually looking too close to call right now!

Antonelli had complaints about the rear but everything was clearly fine for team-mate Russell, who topped the session.

Verstappen was just 0.022s behind with Norris 0.074s off top!

George Russell, Mercedes

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

But that is Q2 now done and the bottom five is as follows:

Piastri was quickest in Q1 but he's survived a Q2 scare finishing just eighth and less than a tenth above the drop zone!

Quite a busy end to the session this and looks like Leclerc has now removed himself from danger, climbing up to a provisional fifth from 10th.

Well that's a busy pitlane! Everybody queuing up to get a final lap completed in these last four minutes.

Mercedes is looking good, but don't think Red Bull can rely on Ferrari to get in front of McLaren with Hamilton out in Q1 and Leclerc only 10th. The Scuderia didn't have a great FP3 either and Charles said the only positive of Friday was sharing the track with his brother Arthur.

Norris is loving that final sector because quite a few times now it's turned a good lap into a very good one. He's currently third and 0.074s off top with the fastest sector three time.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Not sure that's the record Hamilton had in mind when he joined Ferrari!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Hulkenberg's Q1 exit means him and team-mate Bortoleto will finish the year 15-15 for qualifying sessions in 2025. This is 12-12 without sprint weekends.

Absolute level pecking.

He's a lonely man out there as Verstappen is the only driver on track. Come on everyone, it's already started...

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

Quick turnaround: we're back for Q2 and Verstappen is first out.

But that's that for Q1 with Hamilton, Albon, Hulkenberg, Gasly and Colapinto all being eliminated.

Celebrations for Piastri though, as he was close to three tenths quickest with Verstappen second and Antonelli in third. Norris sixth.

"Every time mate, I'm so sorry," was Hamilton's reaction.

But here is a shock, well it would have been a year ago, as Lewis Hamilton suffers a Q1 exit for the third consecutive race.

The winter break cannot come quick enough for the seven-time champion...

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

Colapinto also puts in a lap not good enough so it's a double Alpine Q1 elimination - pretend to be shocked!

Speaking of the bottom five, Gasly improves but not by much so he is out.

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / LAT Images via Getty Images

Wasn't the best lap for Lando though, as the championship leader has since dropped to fifth. But quite frankly, who cares? It's only Q1 and what matters is the bottom five.

Whether it was or not is another matter, but it's done the trick as McLaren goes 1-2. Big advantage to Piastri as well!

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Rudy Carezzevoli / Getty Images

New softs for both McLaren cars - was that really needed?

Just five minutes remain in Q1 and cars are coming back out for their final runs. It's certainly a close grid with the top 18 within eight tenths of each other.

Well, Bearman's Haas is looking good because Ocon is currently in the dropzone.

Albon, Leclerc, Gasly and Colapinto are the others in the bottom five with Leclerc and Gasly having used the mediums. Seems a bit of a strange choice that one.

We mentioned earlier that Hamilton also started on the mediums, but he's since switched to softs and is fifth.

Go on Bearman! That Haas is looking good today with the rookie currently second in Q1 after finishing seventh, one spot behind team-mate Ocon, in FP3.

Oliver Bearman, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

More lap times are coming in now and Verstappen goes fastest with a 1m23.325s. It was only yesterday that he complained of struggles with his pace.

Back to the action, interesting choice of tyre for Hamilton and Gasly as both are on mediums with the rest on softs. Looks like they're hoping to save a fresh set of the red-stripped rubber.

So the pole position award will be presented by Benson Boone. Right, time for Google to come in handy...

Never fear Hamilton fans, as he's out on track for Q1 with his car having recovered from his FP3 crash.

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari crash

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp3-1126182/1126183/
DATE: 2025

And that's all from us for now! We'll be back a little bit later to guide you qualifying as it happens - please do join us again!

That's it for practice sessions this year. Just the small matter of qualifying and the race to go...

Photo by: Ronald Vording

Verstappen improves slightly with his last lap of the session, now just 0.124s off Russell and 0.120s off Norris.

Russell leads the session, then - so Mercedes is very much in the fight for pole here.

Ocon's found a good time to get up to sixth, perhaps he's found a fix for his braking woes. As it stands, the top 17 is all within 0.8s.

Norris can't quite improve either, despite improvement in the opening two sectors.

Some damage to Tsunoda's sidepod and floor, so he's ended up coming back in. Albon had ringside seats for the incident.

"The car still jumps, I can't keep my feet on the pedals," Verstappen reports.

The McLarens go out for a second set of laps on the same softs - Piastri is a smidgen slower than his previous effort.

Antonelli drove out of the pitlane and straight into the path of Tsunoda - which has caused damage to the Italian's front wing.

Better news for Mercedes is that Russell has gone to the top, 0.004s up on Norris. Verstappen goes third fastest, 0.180s off Russell's effort.

Bortoleto was matching Norris through that lap, as was Alonso - but their final sector times were well down on that of Norris.

You can get close in those opening sectors, as they're mainly affected by the braking into Turns 5, 6, and 7. But the final sector is the difficult bit.

Norris looked unsteady through Turn 6 and 7, and has to correct himself. He's down on Piastri out of the opening two sectors, but finds a monster final sector to post a 1m23.338s.

Hulkenberg's on a quick lap too, although has a small correction in the final sector - thus, he's 0.532s down.

Verstappen does a 1m24.116s, while Tsunoda aborts his lap.

But Piastri demonstrates the worth of those new tyres, and posts a 1m23.593s to go top by some margin.

Here we are - fresh softs for Piastri, Norris, and Stroll. Verstappen's on a swift one as we speak...

And we go again, 17 minutes on the clock. Nobody has gone out on fresh tyres, so perhaps they're saving a final set of softs until the final 10 minutes or so.

Alright, we're ready to go - almost. We'll restart in a minute's time.

We're just waiting for the go-ahead while Hamilton's car gets picked out of the Tecpro barrier - and, of course, for the barrier to be sorted.

Bit of repair work for Ferrari to do too, as the front-right suspension is hanging on by a thread.

Hamilton was on a quick lap and, on the turn-in to Turn 9 at the end of the second back stretch, the rear just went out from under him.

"Something buckled at the front and snapped the rear," Hamilton reported, as he gets out of the car.

Hamilton spins at Turn 9 and goes into the wall!

Bearman posts another lap, 0.086s off Verstappen's benchmark. He's been quick all weekend so far.

McLaren has more to find on its subsequent runs, although both drivers did their first soft-tyre laps relatively early into the session compared to those in the top five. Mercedes too, as Russell's only 13th and Antonelli's 17th.

Hamilton hits a 1m24.470s to go fastest, but is beaten by Verstappen by 0.225s. Stroll sets a time just 0.059s off Verstappen's effort.

Tsunoda, after that near-miss, splits the two Saubers - who are currently sixth and eighth.

Woah! Norris came across a very slow Tsunoda on the exit of Turn 11, and very nearly resulted in the two coming together.

Shades of Rosberg and Karthikeyan in the 2012 race there, when the then-Mercedes driver saw the HRT too late.

Norris sets a 1m24.533s on his second run on those softs. Tsunoda is up to second - or was, as Leclerc, then Bearman, go up to P2 - Bearman just 0.008s off.

Piastri is 0.595s off Norris at the present moment, in fifth. Laps coming in thick and fast now.

Both Aston Martin drivers have been given a €25,000 fine for not appearing at a scheduled fan engagement activity - with €15,000 of that suspended for 12 months.

The team had apparently said to both drivers that their appearances weren't required due to them stepping back for Jak Crawford and Cian Shields in FP1. Aston Martin has offered to make it up to the fans by making both drivers available for an appearance later this weekend.

Norris sets a 1m24.728s, so the circuit's not quite where it was at the end of yesterday.

But we expect it to ramp up a bit towards the end of the session. Leclerc does a time and goes second fastest, but he's over a second off Norris.

Here comes one of the big hitters, as Lando Norris breaks onto the circuit. Charles Leclerc also arrives on the scene.

Gasly has set a 1m25.984s, and Colapinto with a 1m26.591s, with our first timed laps of the season.

Colapinto and Gasly hit the road now, on Renault's final F1 weekend as an engine supplier...for now.

It's not the first time we've said that - Renault left at the end of 1986 and 1997 - and in both cases, returned within five years.

The works Renault engine teams Williams and Benetton

Photo by: Motorsport Images

It's still just the Aston Martin duo doing their laps around the circuit. Both Alonso and Stroll were summoned to the stewards for missing the fan engagement activities earlier on today.

I'm sure they had more important things to do, Aston Martin's drivers really don't need distractions right now as they battle for *checks notes* seventh in the constructors' championship.

Here we go, two Aston Martins going out for their weekly tyre scrub.

In the meantime, we've got F1's car performance graphic on the screen, which almost certainly means nothing.

...but no takers just yet. Limited tyres across a weekend, of course, so teams don't want to go out just yet.

Give it a few minutes.

And here's your weather watch: it's 27C and a little cloudy out there, with 38C track temperature.

It's the last chance for our 20 drivers to get acquainted to their cars over a practice session, before we get into qualifying later on.

We'll see if there's any big overnight changes - did McLaren and Red Bull find anything extra, and will Mercedes supply a bit more of a challenge, or will Haas and Sauber continue to surprise?

Esteban Ocon, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Max Verstappen is currently feeling pessimistic about his Abu Dhabi Grand Prix chances as Red Bull lacks pace to McLaren at the 2025 Formula 1 title showdown.

The four-time world champion finished runner-up to McLaren championship leader Lando Norris in both FP1 (+0.008s) and FP2 (+0.363s) on Friday at Yas Marina Circuit.

It comes during the season finale where Norris simply needs a podium finish to claim a maiden title, as he is 12 points ahead of Verstappen and 16 above team-mate Oscar Piastri.

Lando Norris ended the final Friday practice session of 2025 on top of the FP2 standings at the Formula 1 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, over three tenths clear of Max Verstappen - as Oscar Piastri was only 11th.

Hello everyone, and welcome back to our coverage of practice at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.

And it's the last practice session of the season, before we get into the business end of the year-long title battle.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp2-1126167/1126168/
DATE: 2025

That's all from us, we shall be back for FP3 tomorrow.

As we start wrapping up this live commentary, I'll hit you with this stat.

Max Verstappen could become the fourth driver to have won the F1 title without leading the championship at any point during the season.

John Surtees (1964), James Hunt (1976) and Sebastian Vettel (2010) are those to have done it up to now.

Sebastian Vettel, Red Bull Racing RB6

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar / Motorsport Images

The session may be over but it's a busy track, because no doubt we'll start seeing some practice starts.

That's that then! The perfect day for Norris, who topped FP1 and FP2 with title rival Verstappen second in both. Piastri, meanwhile, nowhere near having skipped FP1 before finishing 11th in second practice.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

An interesting look at laps completed in FP2 and Verstappen, Albon and Lawson lead the way with 29. Ocon has completed the least on 24.

Bit of a boring end to the session with cars just going through their respective programmes. As predicted earlier, the leaderboard hasn't really changed in the last 10 minutes.

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Gabriel Bortoleto: "Who's this Ferrari?"

Jose Manuel Lopez: "Leclerc...the big Leclerc."

Bit of a funny exchange between Bortoleto and his Sauber race engineer after encountering the Ferrari on track.

It comes as FP1 saw both Charles and Arthur Leclerc drive for Ferrari as part of F1's young driver rule. Lewis Hamilton is now back though, but has spent much of FP2 in the bottom half.

Arthur Leclerc, Scuderia Ferrari

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

"Don't think he's totally dialled in yet, but he'll get there," Zak Brown tells Sky Sports regarding Piastri.

For the sake of a dramatic title showdown, let's hope he does because he's been nowhere in this FP2 session.

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Cars are back out and many are onto the harder compounds as expected. They'll be going through their long-run programmes now and so it's unlikely that the leaderboard will change much in the final 15 minutes.

Once again, good from Sauber which is fifth and sixth in this session after finishing fifth and seventh in FP1.

Hulkenberg and Bortoleto seem to be giving Peter Sauber a good send-off before the Audi takeover next year.

Gabriel Bortoleto, Sauber

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

"I don't know how it's so good," reported a jubilant Bearman, who is fourth in his Haas. Don't sound so surprised Oli, you did finish fourth in Mexico not long ago!

Looks like the hectic soft-tyre window is now coming to a close with half the grid back in their respective garages. Happy days for Lando and Max, but not Oscar.

Does it get better for Oscar on his second run? Not really, he remains 10th and was seven tenths off on that lap after a lock up at Turn 7. A lot of work to be done for the Aussie, who was once in complete command of this championship.

Although, Piastri didn't have a great first run on the softs as he is six tenths off the pace with reports of balance issues...

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

And now Norris goes fastest with the softs, ahead of Verstappen and Russell. So yes, sort of similar to FP1 in that the usual frontrunners are now at the front in this soft-tyre window.

Speaking of soft-tyre runs, Red Bull has fitted a set onto Verstappen's car and straight away he's gone quickest with 34 minutes remaining...

Thanks for that Fil, adding on the action, there are resemblances to FP1 which early on had a few random names at the top. That's like now with Bearman and Hadjar being the top two.

It wasn't until the soft-tyre runs around the 30-minute mark that the usual suspects stamped their mark.

I'm standing at Latifi Corner, which is a good spot to see this generation of F1 cars in anger one last time. Judging from the pulsating beats emanating from the packed yachts lining Yas Marina behind, not everyone shares our interest in FP2.

But we're hearing there has been a last minute surge in interest in this weekend after the events of Las Vegas and Qatar. A lot of fans and VIPs made a late effort to be here for the decider.

And it's dangerous to extrapolate too much from a single corner sequence, but you probably don't need us to tell you the Ferrari looks a handful.

It's been a very busy opening 15 minutes with 19 drivers currently on track. All three compounds are in use as well, mostly the mediums, with Hadjar currently top on the softs.

Norris is fastest of those with the mediums and Hulkenberg on the hards.

Isack Hadjar, Racing Bulls Team

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Verstappen caught out by Norris behind after receiving mixed messages from Lambiase over whether the McLaren was on a fast lap or not.

"What's this guy doing?", was Norris' response. Mind games already started?

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

ICYMI - Exclusive: Lindblad on his F1 graduation and telling Norris 'I would see him in five years'

By graduating to Racing Bulls in 2026, Britain's Arvid Lindblad has delivered on his own childhood vision that he would somehow make it to Formula 1. Speaking exclusively to Autosport, he tells all about his ambition, his Swedish-Indian family heritage and a promise he made to Lando Norris.

And Bearman is now replaced at the top by another driver on the soft tyre which is Hadjar.

It's no surprise that the quickest time is currently set by one of only two drivers on the soft tyre: Bearman with a 1m24.744s.

Ocon is also on softs with the rest on mediums apart from Hulkenberg and Colapintio, who have hard rubber.

The hard tyre was predominantly used in the early stages of FP1, but the medium rubber seems the most popular for this more representative second session. It's already a busy track.

Several drivers in contention for the F1 title going into the season finale? We've been here before... As Lando Norris, Max Verstappen and Oscar Piastri prepare to battle for the 2025 world championship, here’s how it previously panned out...

Who else was in the team principal press conference? Obviously Red Bull's Laurent Mekies with Verstappen also a title contender. But it wasn't all questions about the championship fight, because this week the Austrian outfit announced Hadjar as Verstappen's team-mate for 2026 meaning Tsunoda is without a seat.

On the matter of Tsunoda and his chances of returning to F1, Mekies said: "We have tried everything we could to to support Yuki. At some stage we had to make the difficult call between where we were seeing that going for for the following years. "I hope and I think that Yuki will get another chance. He will be reserve driver with us next year, you never know what's going to happen.

"We have been we have been quite famous in making fairly swift driver decisions in the past. So, look, when I recall one moment at the end of the season 2024, Yuki was was driving very well. It was very difficult for him to digest."

Yuki Tsunoda, Red Bull Racing, Laurent Mekies, Red Bull Racing Team Principal

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

McLaren's Zak Brown was also in the Abu Dhabi team boss press conference and he was asked about the prospect of team orders between Lando and Oscar come Sunday.

“In the sense of team orders, as long as both drivers have a chance to win the world championship – which they clearly do sitting here right now – then it's business as usual, they're free to race,” said Brown.

“Obviously we’ll be practical and realistic. If, as the weekend develops, as the race develops, it becomes clear that one has a significantly better chance than another, then we're a team that wants to win the drivers' championship, and we will race accordingly to do whatever we can to get whatever that driver is in front to try and win the race.

“Our team orders have been around giving equal opportunity to win the championship, but as the race plays out, if it becomes clear that both can't, then we're going to do what's in the best interest of the team and try and win the drivers' championship.”

Away from the title picture, it was a strong FP1 for Sauber as Hulkenberg finished fifth with Bortoleto seventh. It will be the final race for the Swiss squad before it becomes the Audi works team next year.

Over to team principal Jonathan Wheatley, who said: "We have Peter Sauber [team founder] with us this weekend. Peter and I get on brilliantly.

"What we want to do is sign off on this incredible journey in Formula 1 for the Sauber name by making him as proud as we can on Sunday and putting to bed respectfully the Sauber legacy as we move forward into becoming the Audi F1 team."

Nico Hulkenberg, Sauber

Photo by: Andy Hone/ LAT Images via Getty Images

No doubt the McLaren driver will be happy to be back for FP2...

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

We all know what's at stake this weekend with Norris, Verstappen and Piastri all fighting for the title.

The Aussie may be on the back foot though after skipping FP1 as part of F1's young driver mandate. Norris and Verstappen were the top two in the relatively uneventful session:

Hello, and welcome to live commentary of second practice for this weekend's Abu Dhabi GP!
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp1--1126159/1126160/
DATE: 2025

That's all from us - we'll see you a bit later for FP2, which should be a bit more representative! See you then!

Hirakawa was quickest of the rookie drivers in 11th, Aron 13th, O'Ward 14th, Lindblad 15th, A. Leclerc 16th, Iwasa 17th, Browning 18th, Crawford 19th, Shields 20th.

There's your last FP1 of the year in the history books. Norris is quickest from Verstappen by just 0.008s.

"We are so slow, no? The car feels like it's got zero grip," Charles Leclerc says - as he's told he's not much quicker than the rest of the midfield.

Piastri can't stifle a yawn, and realises he's been caught on camera.

Browning bowls a wide at Turn 1, so its rookies and experienced drivers alike who are finding the run-off.

Hadjar's got a "jumping" car, and at this point I really don't think these drivers will miss the current cars. Like, at all.

Big spin for Leclerc (Charles) at Turn 5, but he's managed to save it and keep going.

"I think Charles is doing some burnouts for the fans," his brother suggests as he follows him into the corner.

"I think there might be something broken on the car," Verstappen reports. "Where are the main issues?" GP replies, who gets the unhelpful response that "it's everywhere".

Everything's infected with brokenness now.

Crawford finally gets a non-hard tyre lap in, doing a lap on the mediums that gets him up to 18th. Browning goes 17th with a lap on softs, 1s off the pace. Leclerc (Jr) moves up to 18th ahead of the two Astons.

15 minutes remain, and our top 10 is Norris, Antonelli, Leclerc (Sr), Antonelli, Hulkenberg, Russell, Bortoleto, Bearman, Sainz, Colapinto.

Bearman is told that Haas will have to retire the car for the session - a sensor is apparently the issue.

Bearman gets up to eighth after his lay-off in the pits. Continued trouble was suspected by Haas, but the Briton keeps going on the mediums.

Norris nips past Verstappen's time, 0.008s up on the Red Bull thus far on those used softs.

There appears to be something on the ground along the start-finish straight. Debris? Water bottle? Crisp packet?

It looks like a can...a silver and blue can, to be precise. Now, if only there was a drinks brand who used such a colour scheme...

Bearman's back out again, but is being told to pit with potentially the same issue as before.

Lindblad is also back on track after Red Bull changed his floor.

Norris goes second quickest, 0.026s behind Verstappen. Verstappen's gone for another tour, 0.021s down on his best effort. Crawford and Shields almost had a moment at Turn 2, as Shields cut off the racing line late.

Meanwhile, more end-of-year radio hilarity: "You have Leclerc Junior at two seconds," Lambiase tells Verstappen. "I find it quite funny you call him junior," comes Verstappen's reply.

Antonelli moves up to third now. Norris aborted his lap on the softs, so he's used it as a prep lap and he's going again - he had a snap at Turn 3.

Russell goes second with a 1m24.733s, 0.24s down on Verstappen's opener on softs, while Hulkenberg moves up to third - also on softs.

Lindblad is in the pits and his (well, Tsunoda's) car is getting some attention from the mechanics.

Verstappen's on softs now, seeing what he can do on a quick lap. He sets a 1m24.493s to go top over Hadjar.

Arthur Leclerc saves his Ferrari from a snap at Turn 12, and brushes the run-off.

Moment of minor hilarity when Russell is told "Owasa" is near him on the circuit. "I think that's O'Ward, not O'Wasa", the Mercedes driver replies.

Hirakawa goes up to ninth on the hard tyre, covering for the lack of running at Haas as Bearman is in the bits. He states that he's got "annoying" bouncing, which is very much the situation with these cars...

Bortoleto goes fastest with a 1m25.398s, on the hard tyre - the circuit is cleaning up.

"The grip is really bad, feels like I'm driving on ice" - Lindblad giving a Verstappen-esque appraisal of an early-weekend Red Bull.

Bearman got back to the pits, ready for his team to inspect the issue at play.

"I've lost power," Bearman reports. There's a leak in the system, so he'll hope he can crawl back to the pitlane.

Hulkenberg goes top with a 1m25.439s, 0.015s up on Norris.

Browning's getting a new radio after the earlier issues, hence why he's not got a timed lap in so far.

Elsewhere in rookie-watch, O'Ward is seventh, Lindblad 13th, Aron 14th, then Hirakawa, Leclerc (A), Iwasa, Crawford, and Shields.

Norris does a fast final sector to set a 1m25.454s, returning to the top. Verstappen's got a good middle sector, and that's second for him.

Sainz goes top on the hard tyre, setting a 1m25.712s. Top four all closely matched at the minute, although this session means basically nothing given the circuit conditions.

Leclerc The Elder moves up to sixth, until Antonelli posts the fastest time of the session and does a 1m25.708s.

A few shuffles at the top; Lindblad was very briefly top of the charts, but Norris throws down a 1m25.764s on the mediums to go top. Hulkenberg just a fraction behind on the same tyre as it stands.

O'Ward then goes up to second on the softs, before Russell nudges ahead of the IndyCar star.

Verstappen sets a 1m27.130s on the hard tyre to go fastest, despite a smidgen of traffic. Shields blocked him a little bit there.

Meanwhile, both Alpine drivers have a wobble out of the final corner, while Browning has a bit of radio trouble and struggled to hear that Hadjar was coming.

Iwasa kicks us off with a 1m29.850s on the hard tyre, beaten by O'Ward's 1m27.398s on the softs. Sainz, Lindblad, and Antonelli also get their first laps in.

The Racing Bulls duo head out first - Hadjar from Iwasa, followed by O'Ward - in Piastri's McLaren for this session.

Lindblad and one of the Leclercs is on the road - Arthur, not Charles!

Not long until FP1 now, and we'll get to see a(nother) glimpse of next year's new rookie driver in Arvid Lindblad.

The rest are seasoned FP1 drivers at this point, bar Cian Shields - but the Scotsman has been doing some TPC running with Aston Martin this year.

Lando Norris, Max Verstappen, and Oscar Piastri were together in the press conference yesterday, to a packed out media room.

Here's how it went down on Thursday:

Eight of the 10 teams still have FP1 rookie quotas to fulfil - they'll check that box in this session, one of the less representative sessions as it's held in the day. Here's the list of FP1 swaps.

McLaren - Pato O'Ward in for Oscar PiastriRed Bull - Arvid Lindblad in for Yuki TsunodaFerrari - Arthur Leclerc in for Lewis HamiltonWilliams - Luke Browning in for Alex AlbonRacing Bulls - Ayumu Iwasa in for Liam LawsonAston Martin - Jak Crawford in for Lance Stroll, Cian Shields in for Fernando AlonsoHaas - Ryo Hirakawa in for Esteban OconAlpine - Paul Aron in for Pierre Gasly

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Hello everyone - and welcome to our live coverage of the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix weekend.

So, we're here. 23 races done, one to go. 12 points separating the top two in the championship, 16 points separating the top three. And it all begins here in FP1!

The Driver World Champion's trophy...who will have their signature etched upon it next?

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-updates-media-day/1126145/
DATE: 2025

That's all from us this afternoon - join us again tomorrow as we cover off the practice sessions, and assess how the race weekend is shaping up! Thanks for joining, and we'll see you then!

You can stay in touch with everything F1 from Abu Dhabi with the following schedule (all Abu Dhabi local times):

FP1: 13:30, FP2: 17:00SATURDAY

FP3: 14:30, Q: 18:00SUNDAY

Yuki Tsunoda says he was told after Qatar that Red Bull would not be keeping him for 2026; understandably, he was left disappointed by the news that he would not be racing next year.

He says that his Red Bull contract didn't allow him to pursue leads elsewhere, but added that his only regret in moving up to the brand's main team was that he missed out on a "pretty good f***ing car" with Racing Bulls.

"I'm disappointed obviously and pissed off and how I was told was it was right after the race, from Helmut, yeah privately, that I'm not going to race next year so I think that's it.

"But surprisingly I'm okay, I mean not okay but like I'm surviving okay, like the day after, the morning I ordered breakfast as usual, same food," Tsunoda said.

"Probably I'm not recognising enough that it will be the last race for this year or at least for next year so yeah, maybe I'll feel more after Abu Dhabi, but yeah, that's how it went and how I feel now."

On having only one regret: "Probably I was saying that I didn't have any regrets. The only regret I have is missing out that pretty good f***ing car, but also throwing away your kids, your baby, because it's the car that I developed with the team throughout the years since we had this regulation and I'm sure there's my DNA inside as well."

Yuki Tsunoda, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lewis Hamilton says that he supported Ferrari's decision to stop development in 2025 and that a dip in performance was anticipated - but it "felt worse" living through it.

Hamilton's demeanour has not been one of great enthusiasm of late as Ferrari's results have dropped away from the other top-four teams, but he says it hasn't taken a long-term toll.

"I mean, it didn't have a psychological effect on me personally. I didn't know at the end of the year we'd be where we are, no. We anticipated it, but it felt worse, naturally," Hamilton said.

"But I was a part of pushing Fred - we can't fall behind the others in terms of that development for the new car, because it's a steep learning curve for all of us. So I supported it 100%.

"I still do. I think it was the right decision. Particularly where we were already with the car, we weren't fighting for a championship."But it's just meant that it's been harder to maintain the performance, at least some of the performance we had at the beginning of the year. I can't answer the question for the rest of the team. I think everyone's stayed really positive in my experience. So I've not seen a psychological effect."

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Kimi Antonelli opened up on the abuse he received in the wake of the Qatar Grand Prix, as a torrent of horrific social media comments was sent his way following misplaced accusations about losing a place to Lando Norris.

Red Bull's Gianpiero Lambiase suggested to Max Verstappen that Antonelli let Norris through, a statement echoed by advisor Helmut Marko. Both apologised for their comments afterwards.

"It was not easy to get all those kind of comments, after the race, especially for something that I would never do such as waving past a competitor," Antonelli said.

"I was fighting for P3. At the end of the day, I was pushing hard and I was trying to get into the DRS of Sainz.

"After so many laps in dirty air I'm pushing so hard, the mistake arrived, because I obviously every lap I was pushing a bit more and more to get closer and I arrived to the point where the tyre gave up. At that moment I did a mistake and Lando passed me and, you know, then after the race to receive those kind of comments, definitely it hurt.

On Red Bull's apology: "It was nice to see the Red Bull statement, also GP came to talk to me as well and we clarified, I also clarified with Max and that was nice.

"But apart from that, after that I got a lot of support which was nice and definitely also it helped to kind of forget what happened and focus on onto this weekend."

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Norris has done quite a bit of the talking so far in this press conference and, asked if McLaren had discussed the chance of one driver helping the other, both drivers said that this hadn't been part of the team's preparation.

Norris added: "I haven't asked for it and I don't want to ask for it. If I was asked to help Oscar I think I would, because that's just the way I am, but yeah, I haven't asked for it."

Both McLaren drivers have their families at the track, while Verstappen does not - stating that "everything was cancelled after Zandvoort". His father Jos is rallying in Kenya this weekend, and his mother "is at home with the dogs".

Lando Norris, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

The final Thursday press conference of the year - and it's a packed room with questions for Max Verstappen, Lando Norris, and Oscar Piastri.

Norris: "Nothing changes, just some reviews of last weekend, what was clearly not good for us and the mistakes we made, and what we could improve on. but that's normal post-weekend understanding. But nothing does change, for everyone in the team, just more excitement."

Verstappen: "Spent some time with my daughter, figured some stuff for GT3 for next year, sim team planning for next year. Pretty straightforward stuff!"

Piastri: "I wasn't organising GT3 teams! I played some padel, and treated it as normal. Not that many days in between, had a marketing day, so that's been it!"

Speaking in the press conference, both George Russell and Charles Leclerc shared their experiences of the past four years.

Russell spoke about Mercedes' initial difficulties and having to play catch-up, while Leclerc explained that Ferrari's bright start to 2022 was undone by its porpoising.

Russell on Mercedes' 2022-25 fortunes: "I think we started in the wrong place, it lead us down and had to revert. Red Bull had almost a six-month, eight-month headstart while we were trying to work [porpoising] out."

Leclerc on Ferrari's lack of progress from 2022: "I agree, I think for us there are many reasons which played a role. In 2022 we started quite well but had porpoising. Red Bull had a very stable platform but were overweight, and when they took off that weight they were suddenly at the level where they've been since then.

"We focused very early on next year's car which I hope is a bet that it'll be a winning one. For sure it has some influence through the past two-thirds of the season we've been struggling because we didn't bring that many updates. It's been a generation of car that has even very difficult to understand. Bringing parts from the factory I think everyone has been surprised more than once that it doesn't correlate exactly."

Charles Leclerc, Ferrari

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Earlier this season, Fernando Alonso stated that he'd celebrate not having to drive this year's AMR25 car - and has his eyes keenly on 2026 when he'll get access to a car influenced by Adrian Newey for the first time.

He says that 2026 might need to be used to "glue everything together" but is confident Aston Martin has the right people on board.

"Yeah, I think we're happy to say bye-bye to this year and obviously we've been not as fast as we were hoping," Alonso said.

"2024 was a tough and and challenging season and 2025 was just the, the big brother of that, so we're struggling and we don't hide from that. It's the last race.

"We want to finish in the best possible position and help the team in the constructors' championship, but yeah, looking forward to next year for sure.

"I mean, the factory is completed, wind tunnel is brand new and completed, and we are using it. We have Adrian Newey, Andy Cowell, Enrico Cardile, we have great people and great talent in the factory, We just need, you know, to put everything in place. There are new facilities, people are just a few months into the system.

"It won't be enough with these few months, so we need one full season to glue everything together."

Fernando Alonso, Aston Martin Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Pierre Gasly admits to being torn - at least, in the moment - on Alpine's decision to sacrifice almost all development in 2025 to progress in 2026, but believes the decision is "for the better".

Alpine has been rooted to the bottom of the constructors' standings, with Gasly having scored all of the team's 22 points. He reckoned that if the team had brought updates, it might have been in the reckoning for a higher constructors' finish, but at the detriment of next year.

"Many times I look at the ranking and I'm like, 'OK, what if we had this on the car, what if we had that..."

"I think what I care about at the end is just making sure that I'm able to provide my best, my best to the team, Because ultimately I want to achieve much bigger things in F1. I just want to know that I'm able to do it whenever the moment comes to me.

"It's always nicer if you can be 6th or 5th or 4th instead of 9th. I must say I'm quite happy that the team took this very aggressive approach, and I think I would have been slightly more annoyed if we would have tried to push the development 2-3 months further to actually get what, 8th, 9th in the championship, and actually affect next year.

"I'm quite optimistic and and confident for next year just based on the sort of decisions we took. It was a rough, eight months and it hasn't been really fun, But I think it's for the better."

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Ollie Bearman addressed the abuse that fellow F1 rookie Kimi Antonelli received in the wake of the Qatar Grand Prix, calling those responsible the "scum of the earth".

Antonelli was wrongly accused of moving out of the way of Lando Norris in Qatar by senior Red Bull figures and, although they apologised for their remarks, it was too late to stop the 19-year-old Italian from receiving a deluge of unwarranted abuse.

"Generally it's always the case that people [who abuse others] behind the screen are horrible and they're scum of the earth, really. I don't think they should be doing that type of stuff to someone.

"You know, like, I understand that people who've been in F1 for a very long time can get used to it and people who are rookies, it may be their first experience, you know, having that type of criticism, but that criticism is an absolute joke. It shouldn't be tolerated and I know the FIA are doing everything they can to stop that, but the problem is these sad people giving those types of criticisms. It's a joke, you know.

"We're putting our lives on the line to entertain people and to, you know, give the people who are passionate for the sport a good time and you have people like that who are just hurting people and that's not just racing, that's also their personal life and I just think people are terrible. "

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes, Oliver Bearman, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Dom Gibbons / LAT Images via Getty Images

No rest for the wicked, it seems; Esteban Ocon and Ollie Bearman will be flying to Italy after the Abu Dhabi weekend is over to get their first taste of Haas' 2026 car in the Ferrari simulator.

Haas boss Ayao Komatsu wanted both drivers to maintain focus on 2025, and thus has suggested that both drivers hold fire on trying the new car before the season is over.

"As soon as this is finished, we are flying - both me and Ollie - to the team in Maranello, and we are driving the 2026 car," Ocon explained.

"It was very much a team's decision, not for us to focus on the 26 stuff in terms of driving, in terms of, driving style, technique and everything before this season was finished. Ayao was very clear on that.

"He wanted us to focus completely on this season, which is very important for the team. We've done meetings because we had to in terms of technicality and some stuff that we had to decide very early on with the team. But the work for us is going to really start post Abu Dhabi testing."

On Haas' title partnership with Toyota: "It is great news, Toyota is a brand that I really enjoy working with. I'm not saying that because they are working with us, I really mean it; they have great values, they have great respect, they are passionate about racing.

"They are petrolheads basically, and that's so cool to see when we visited them in Japan, they've put us in on the gravel track, and they've put us in the in the craziest track I've ever seen, on the road, and I've tested the WRC car at Goodwood. It's fantastic honestly to work with them."

Esteban Ocon trying out WRC cars with Takamoto Katsuta

Photo by: Toyota Racing

We've got another bumper crop of younger drivers as the teams look to fill their quota of young drivers (the regular drivers must vacate their seats twice a year in FP1, unless they began the year as a rookie).

McLaren - Pato O'Ward in for Oscar PiastriRed Bull - Arvid Lindblad in for Yuki TsunodaFerrari - Arthur Leclerc in for Lewis HamiltonWilliams - Luke Browning in for Alex AlbonRacing Bulls - Ayumu Iwasa in for Liam LawsonAston Martin - Jak Crawford in for Lance Stroll, Cian Shields in for Fernando AlonsoHaas - Ryo Hirakawa in for Esteban OconAlpine - Paul Aron in for Pierre GaslyMercedes and Sauber have already fulfilled the rules on FP1 drivers.

Arvid Lindblad, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Michael Potts / LAT Images via Getty Images

Alex Albon has heaped praise on his Williams team for delivering a car with which he was able to enjoy his best F1 season. Albon opened the year with fifth place in Australia, and sits ninth in the championship with 73 points.

"I would say my best season yet in many ways I feel like, obviously the car I think it takes credit for most of that," Albon stated.

"I haven't changed so much my application into this year but the car and the, what the guys and girls have done at the factory have made a huge step this year.

"I've been with this team for four years now, and this has been clearly the biggest step out of the four years from year to year. It's been enjoyable, been fun to be able to race against some of the top teams in some certain tracks."

On recent form tailing off: "Towards the end of the year, not ideal, but generally pace has been strong, just either myself, I've made a couple of mistakes - Vegas and Baku kind of stand out to me - but then, the other ones have just not gone my way, just kind of what it was like for Carlos at the beginning of the year."

Alexander Albon, Williams

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Hoping that one of its drivers ends up taking the title, McLaren has made a few colourful addendums to its livery for this year's finale.

McLaren Abu Dhabi GP special livery

Carlos Sainz backed Lando Norris to win this year's F1 title, noting that Abu Dhabi is "a Lando track" and mentioned the Briton's win at the circuit last year.

Norris beat Sainz to the win by 5.5s last season, and will be hoping to close out this year's championship with a similar result.

"I do have an interest obviously and I will be following very closely, closely also I think everyone knows how well I get on with Lando and obviously I wish Lando the best possible outcome in that sense," Sainz remarked.

"I also have a lot of respect for Max and Oscar, and I wish them the best, but I think Abu Dhabi is a Lando track. It's good for him that I think the finale is in Abu Dhabi, which is from my experience being his teammate here is one of his best tracks at driving.

"The win he took last year in front of me still hurts and he dominated last year a race in front of me. It's a Lando track and it's a McLaren track, so I think he, he plays with that advantage.

"Still going into the last weekend, having to finish on the podium is never easy, even if you drive a McLaren and I think he needs to execute a perfect weekend and I believe he, given how well he's responded under pressure recently, I think he can do it."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, Carlos Sainz, Williams

Photo by: Bryn Lennon / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Nico Hulkenberg says he'll be keeping an eye on the screens around the track to follow F1's title battle between Max Verstappen, Lando Norris, and Oscar Piastri.

The German praised Verstappen for his recent form, and reckons his experience in battling for titles will stand the four-time champion in good stead.

"He's had such a good run recently, so strong with no mistakes and just absolutely been been flawless and and killing it," Hulkenberg said.

"He's behind, 12 points is quite a lot, but obviously we know mathematically it's possible and we know crazy things can happen. I think he obviously knows how to fight for a title, and I think pressure is not an issue for him.

"He's got nothing to lose really."

Nico Hulkenberg, Sauber

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Gabriel Bortoleto has had his share of rookie moments over 2025, but he's also been able to prove his worth at Sauber across the season with plenty of impressive moments through the year.

The Brazilian picked Hungary, where he finished sixth, as his best race of the year.

"Main highlights, I can't forget to say Budapest. I think it was so far my best race of the season," he said.

"I think [it was a] great quali - Q3 - and then making a move in lap 1 and then having very good management of the tyres and finishing the race in P6. It was great because I think that was pure pace and, and very enjoyable.

"There were many other races, you know, Austria first points, Monza, Spa - I think they were very good races as well."

Gabriel Bortoleto, Sauber

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Some early news from the weekend: Haas has a new title sponsor for 2026. Toyota picks up the title deal from MoneyGram under its Toyota Gazoo Racing motorsport brand - and thus, the team will race as TGR Haas F1 Team next year.

Good morning folks, and welcome to the start of our live coverage of F1's season finale at the Yas Marina Circuit - and we've got a three-way title decider coming our way!

Who's going to win: Norris, Verstappen, or Piastri? It'll be a thrill-a-minute ride on Sunday night.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Ahmad AlShehab / NurPhoto via Getty Images
