======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/lance-stroll-2020-missed-opportunity/5136074/
DATE: 2020

The Canadian took his maiden pole position for the team - then called Racing Point - at the Turkish Grand Prix last season, and enjoyed two podium finishes as he enjoyed a step forward in form from his team.

But while chuffed with the good days, he still thinks more could have been more possible were it not for bad luck and catching COVID-19.

“We had some good results: a few fourth places, a couple of podiums, a pole - that was one of the bigger highlights of the season. So it was a good year," Stroll told Motorsport.com.

“I think at the same time, though, it was a year of missed opportunity with the car we had. We had very competitive car - but there were other factors.”

Stroll points to the fact that the first half of the season was so strong for him, as he temporarily moved himself up to the best-of-the-rest slot in the drivers’ standings behind Lewis Hamilton, Valtteri Bottas and Max Verstappen.

But then following a podium finish at the Italian Grand Prix, his campaign went off the rails for a while as retirements, incidents and an absence meant he did not score for five races.

“In the first half of the season I was sitting fourth in the world championship with a good gap to the rest of the pack,” he explained.

“Then after my puncture in Mugello it was a bumpy ride in terms of points. A part of me is a little bit frustrated that in so many races, we kind of just had a bumpy ride, and it ran a little bit downhill since my previous podium in Monza.

“There was a lot of opportunity in some of those races. In Mugello, we were up for the podium there and we had the puncture. And then I got COVID, missed a race there [Nurburgring]. There's been a few unfortunate other races where we just DNF'd, and didn't score any points.

“So I do see some missed opportunity in the season in total. But, all in all, it was a very fun year as well. It was a good year and it was a fun year - just competing in a car that has been up at the front for most of the season. That's been awesome.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/lance-stroll-engine-miles-surviving-/4925860/
DATE: 2020

Racing Point is just 10 points ahead of McLaren and 22 clear of Renault with millions of dollars of prize fund money riding on the final classification of the three teams in the constructors' championship.

Racing Point made its task harder when it decided to give Sakhir GP winner Sergio Perez a new power unit for the last weekend of the season, committing to him to starting at the back.

However, the team has taken a gamble with Stroll and kept a high mileage engine in his car for this weekend.

Stroll is out of sync on engine usage after he lost the use of one in his heavy crash during the Emilia Romagna GP, obliging his third example of the season to do a lot of mileage in the remaining races.

He regained some miles when Friday was rained out at the Nurburgring and his car was absent from P3 due to illness.

Stroll qualified eighth in Abu Dhabi, ahead of the two Renaults but behind the McLarens, with Lando Norris starting fourth and Carlos Sainz sixth.

“I mean, we're surviving on engine miles this weekend,” the Canadian told Motorsport.com.

“Checo's got a new engine. Because of the puncture in Mugello, we hit the engine quite hard.

“That one was toast, and because we lost that one we had to get a new one, so this one's gone for quite a long time.

“Because I actually I think missed a session for COVID, I think we've managed to kind of eke it out until the end of the year. I don't want to talk too soon.

“We had a couple of races where we weren't sure if it we were gonna change the engine or not and also we're really trying to drag it out to the end of the season.

“But it's a long race tomorrow, a lot can happen. We're in the fight with McLaren, and they're starting in a good position.”

Stroll admitted that his lap times could be compromised in the race.

“Maybe a tenth a lap or something. But it's racing, a lot can happen. We have a quick car, good strategy, good start, so a lot could happen tomorrow.”

Perez will start 19th as Haas driver Kevin Magnussen also has an engine penalty. Asked if he had nothing to lose from the back – having won last weekend after his first lap incident and pit stop dropped him down the order – the Mexican said that wasn’t the case.

“We have a lot of things to lose tomorrow,” he told Sky F1. “It still requires a very good race from our side, we have to make sure we get into the points, well into them, because the battle in the championship is very, very tight.

“So we have to make sure that we have a strong race tomorrow and make as much progress as we possibly can.”

Perez revealed that knowing he would start from the back, the team concentrated its efforts into giving him a good car for the race.

"We've put everything together for the race, we've focussed on every single bit for the race. We'll see what we are able to do, but a lot of things can happen tomorrow.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/perez-suffering-old-engine-sakhir/4922293/
DATE: 2020

The Racing Point driver suffered a suspected MGU-K failure in Bahrain last weekend as he looked on course for a podium finish.

The problem has forced his team to revert to a well-used power unit for this weekend’s Sakhir GP, and the current turbo hybrids produce less power when they are getting towards the end of their life.

Having qualified fifth for the race, one place behind Ferrari’s Charles Leclerc, Perez says there is no doubt he is slightly on the back foot by not having a newer engine at his disposal.

“I think we very much maximised our potential, putting absolutely every single corner right,” the Mexican told Sky about his qualifying form.

“Maybe there was a half a tenth, but we didn't have quite the speed of Leclerc, who did a fantastic lap.

“We are suffering a bit with the engine.. We had to go back to our old engine and, at this track, I think we certainly are missing the fresh engines here.”

With only two races to go, and Racing Point locked in a tight fight with McLaren and Renault for third place in the constructors’ championship, the team has tried to steer clear of fitting a fresh engine because that would mean a grid penalty.

Perez says that the focus is on maximising points scoring opportunities, even if it is missing a slight edge on the power front.

Asked how much of a difference the older specification engine made, Perez said: “We're still looking for numbers but it's quite a bit obviously: one tenth around here makes a big difference so we're looking at something like that obviously.

“I think the priority for us will be to make it to the end. We don't want to get a penalty on a new engine.

“We know that we are underperforming on the engine side, but it's more important to try and get the maximum performance. For us the most important is just to make it to the end here and in Abu Dhabi.”

Additional reporting by James Newbold

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/racing-point-pink-mercedes-tech/4911795/
DATE: 2020

And while much of its progress this year has been under the cloud of its copycat tactics in being inspired by last year’s Mercedes design, recent developments have shown it is actually doing more and more its own thing.

The RP20 might still have the advantage of sharing commonality with the W10 when it comes to some of the car’s core aspects but, its decision to use parts that it has designed, plus bring its own updates, has moved the car away from being a complete ‘Pink Mercedes’.

There is no better example of this than the front wing, an aspect of the car’s design you’d expect the team to mimic with extreme accuracy, given it’s the first component exposed to the airflow. On the RP20 it is different in its detail, and the main contrast is in an area that the team spent plenty of last year developing: the footplate.

Racing Point RP19, front wing comparison

The change in regulations for 2019 removed the majority of the aerodynamic furniture responsible for creating ‘outwash’, and this meant that teams had to rethink other aspects of the front wing’s design to compensate.

Racing Point focused its attention on the footplate, as altering its shape, and length in its case, has a bearing on the formation of the vortex that’s shed. This in-turn has an impact on the surrounding flow structures.

Racing Point RP20 front wing end plate comparison

For 2020, rather than simply copy the W10’s arrangement entirely, Racing Point sought to improve upon it.

The team added a long vane atop the footplate to help guide the airflow and adjust the pressure gradient, which also influences the formation, shape and direction of the vortex beneath.

It’s actually been an area of interest for all of the teams given the changes to the regulations. Let’s take a look at how it has faced up to this challenge:

Click on the arrows to scroll through the images below…

The sidepod update package that Racing Point introduced at Mugello has been the biggest development for it so far this season.

This upgrade led to the team stepping out of the shadow of its Mercedes counterpart, as it discarded the more contoured design favoured by Mercedes and replaced it with a more abrupt arrangement. Featuring a more ramped slope (right-side image, with the old version on the left), the sidepod bodywork, which bears more of a resemblance to the designs used during the ‘Coanda’ exhaust era, now clings more closely to the radiator and air-to-air cooler installed beneath and exposes more of the floor than before.

Such a large-scale development takes time to develop, manufacture and understand. This were all factors that were hindered by the adjustments to this season and were made worse when the first set of parts were wrecked at Mugello when Lance Stroll crashed.

Due to the scale of manufacturing of these parts, the team opted to stagger their introduction, with the new parts installed on Stroll’s car for Mugello and another set due to arrive for Perez in Russia. However, when the original set became damaged beyond repair, it set the team back and meant that the first time it could run both cars in the same specification would be the Eifel GP.

With several races experience behind it now, the team has undoubtedly begun to understand the package and continue to unlock performance that can also be gained from adjustments to the power unit too.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/stroll-frustrated-graining-turkey-win/4910724/
DATE: 2020

Stroll took a shock pole position in rainy conditions on Saturday in Turkey, and was able to open up a 10-second lead over the field in the opening stages of the race on full wet tyres.

Although Stroll maintained his lead upon the switch to intermediate tyres, he saw the gap to teammate Sergio Perez narrow at the front, prompting Racing Point to bring Stroll in for a second stop with 22 laps to go.

But the fresh intermediates grained immediately, causing Stroll to fall back through the field as he struggled for pace, losing positions to a number of drivers.

Stroll was passed by Sebastian Vettel, Charles Leclerc, Carlos Sainz, Max Verstappen, Alexander Albon and Lando Norris after his pit stop, leaving him over a minute off race winner Lewis Hamilton at the chequered flag.

“I don't know what happened, I don't understand,” Stroll said after the race.

“We had so much graining on the first set of intermediates. We decided to pit, we were losing seconds a lap.

“I just don't know where that graining came from, it just happened instantly. It grained again, massive graining, and no pace.

“We'll have to look into it, it was pretty terrible today.”

The Canadian admitted he was frustrated to see such a big lead go to waste, having still held onto the lead of the race up until his second pit stop.

Perez did not make a second stop for fresh intermediates, eventually getting to the end of the race on a single set that lasted 48 laps, giving the Mexican second place.

“It's just frustrating that you're in the lead by 10 seconds, and then all of a sudden you finish ninth,” Stroll said.

“I don't understand how that happens. I mean I do, it's graining, but we just need to look into why it hit me so much harder than the other car.

“I’m not so sure why.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/stroll-turkey-win-big-ask/4910281/
DATE: 2020

Stroll capitalised on heavy rain and low grip conditions on the new surface at Istanbul Park to score his maiden F1 pole, edging out Red Bull’s Max Verstappen by two-tenths of a second in Q3.

Stroll said after qualifying he was “shocked” by the result following struggles through practice as he became the fifth-youngest pole-sitter in F1 history.

But the Canadian downplayed talk of a potential first F1 victory when speaking after qualifying, believing it would be a huge challenge for Racing Point to maintain its advantage.

“It’s a big ask,” Stroll said. “It depends on what the conditions are doing to do. I haven’t really looked at the conditions yet for Sunday.

“I heard maybe there was a chance of rain at the start of the race, so we’ll see what happens. That could mix things up.

“I’ll deal with that in a couple of hours. I’ll let this sink in. I’m going to enjoy the moment for sure.

“It’s a very special moment for me, [my] first pole position in Formula 1. We’re going to digest that for a couple of hours, and then focus on the race.”

Sunday will mark Stroll’s second appearance on the front row of an F1 grid, having starting second for the 2017 Italian Grand Prix after again impressing in a wet qualifying session.

Racing Point team boss Otmar , but instead the result of a “well-judged” session by Stroll.

Stroll has scored two F1 podiums to date, finishing third in the 2017 Azerbaijan Grand Prix and at this year’s Italian Grand Prix.

He has not scored any points since his appearance on the podium at Monza this year, and admitted earlier this week .

Stroll was joined towards the front of the grid by teammate Sergio Perez, who qualified third, giving the team a chance to rack up a big haul of points in the fight for third place in the constructors’ championship.

Racing Point currently sits fifth in the standings, but is just one point behind third-placed Renault and has the same score as McLaren.

McLaren team boss Andreas Seidl said Racing Point had the chance to “damage our ability to stay in the fight for P3” in Turkey.

“As I've said in previous weeks, we never had this year the third quickest car,” Seidl said.

“I still think there's a chance [to finish third] because we always have two drivers to be able to score good points to stay in this fight for P3.

“But obviously we depend a lot on what's happening tomorrow. We will not give up this fight, as long as we can stay in the points gap.”

Additional reporting by Jonathan Noble

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/stroll-shocked-turkish-gp-pole-position/4909735/
DATE: 2020

With Saturday afternoon's action being hit by multiple red flags, Stroll kept his cool and a change on to intermediate tyre helped him claim the top spot in the final stages of Q3.

The Canadian, who has not scored a point since he finished on the podium at the Italian Grand Prix in September, ended up 0.290 seconds ahead of Max Verstappen, who had looked in control of things earlier on.

Speaking after the session, Stroll said he could not quite believe what had happened, especially because Racing Point had not looked so competitive in free practice.

"I'm shocked," said Stroll. "I didn't expect us to be up here after P3.

"There were a lot of things that we weren't sure of coming into qualifying. We didn't look too competitive in P3, but I'm so happy right now.

"I really put that lap together at the end. I was under a lot of pressure and I only had one lap to do it there at the end, because we started on the wet tyre.

"We boxed for inters and I had one lap where Valtteri [Bottas] spun in front of me, and then I had one lap at the end to do it. But I had the confidence in the car and I just nailed pretty much every corner, and pieced it together nicely.

"It's such a great way to bounce back after a few rough weeks and since Mugello really it's been a rough ride for me so. Yeah. Feels good. Feels really good right now."

Stroll's teammate Sergio Perez had topped the times in the early stages of Q3, but says he lost out on keeping in front as the track improved after being held up by Alfa Romeo's Antonio Giovinazzi.

"It is a great result for the team and something we weren't really expecting," said Perez, who ended up third behind Verstappen. "In the end, we were just unlucky.

"My final lap, when the track was at its best, I had Giovinazzi in front and he simply didn't move out of the way and then I lost my lap.

"Obviously, track position was key today: to be able to maintain your temperature in the tyres. And I think we are in a good position. I definitely prefer P3 [on the grid] than P2. I think tomorrow that will make a difference."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/stroll-rough-patch-racing-point/4908441/
DATE: 2020

Stroll has failed to score any points since finishing on the podium in the Italian Grand Prix at Monza over two months ago, reaching the chequered flag just once in that time.

By comparison, teammate Sergio Perez has scored 48 points in the same five-race period, helping Racing Point’s bid for third place in the constructors’ championship.

Stroll crashed heavily while running in the points at Mugello before a collision with Charles Leclerc on the opening lap in Russia forced him to retire.

The Canadian then missed the Eifel Grand Prix at the Nurburgring through illness, later testing positive for COVID-19, and retired upon returning in Portugal after clashing with Lando Norris.

Stroll then struggled through the last race at Imola, finishing 13th and overshooting his pit box during the race, prompting Racing Point to say that .

Reflecting on the last two months ahead of this weekend’s Turkish Grand Prix, Stroll conceded it has been a difficult period to get through, but stressed he did not want to dwell on the missed opportunities.

“It hasn’t been fun, I’m not going to lie,” Stroll admitted.

“It’s been frustrating at times. But you know, this sport is a rollercoaster. I’ve had some highs at the beginning of the season.

“Up until Monza, really, it’s been a great season for me, and unfortunately now, I’ve just gone through a rough patch. There’s nothing I can do about it.

“In hindsight, there’s definitely some things that I believe I could have done differently. There’s been some mistakes I have made in some of the races, and that has cost me some points.

“Then there’s been just unfortunate circumstances, like Mugello, like Russia, then of course missing the race in Nurburgring was far from ideal. But that’s in the past now. There’s nothing that I can do about it.

“Instead of dwelling on it, I’m looking forward to the next four races. I know we have a strong package, and there’s plenty of opportunity in the next four races to come back strongly.

“My sights are set on this weekend as it stands, and the remainder of the season.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/perez-sabbatical-2021-racing-point/4907938/
DATE: 2020

Perez will leave the Racing Point team at the end of the season after it opted to trigger an exit clause in his contract, paving the way for four-time world champion Sebastian Vettel to join in his place.

Perez had been linked with drives at a number of teams, including Alfa Romeo, Williams and Haas, but appears only to have an option at Red Bull remaining for next year.

Red Bull is considering whether to replace Alexander Albon with a more experienced driver for next year, with Perez appearing to be the leading candidate.

Asked for an update on his future ahead of this weekend’s Turkish Grand Prix, Perez said there was “nothing yet” to report.

“We just have to wait and see, the season is coming soon to an end,” Perez said.

“As I’ve said before, until the teams announce their drivers, everything is an option. Every team that hasn't announced their line-up, it’s an option. So we will see.”

But with time ticking for Perez to land a seat, the Mexican conceded that he could take a break from racing completely next year if he does not get confirmation of his plans soon.

“We are not that far from the season to end, so definitely I have to know my plans,” Perez said.

“I need to know what will happen on my side to be able to plan everything. It’s happening now too late, so we’re already close to December. There is not a lot more to add in that regard.

“Everything is so late now, and it looks like I will know whether I continue in Formula 1 or not quite late in the year.

“So I think a sabbatical, it's an option. But we’ll see what happens in the next couple of weeks.”

Perez was most strongly linked with a move to Williams in recent weeks, only for the team to confirm it would be retaining George Russell and Nicholas Latifi as planned for next year.

Asked by Motorsport.com how far advanced talks were with Williams, Perez replied: “I’ve always kept my talks private. I think it’s the way it always should be.

“More than that, there’s not a lot of point. Nothing happened, so I think there’s not a lot of point of discussing. There were some talks, but nothing more than that.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/stroll-confidence-lost-racing-point/4903925/
DATE: 2020

Stroll has not scored a single point since he finished on the podium at the Italian Grand Prix in September.

He crashed out in Tuscany and Russia and has enjoyed little luck since illness, , forced him to miss the Eifel GP.

In Portugal he was involved in incidents with Red Bull's Max Verstappen in practice, and with McLaren driver Lando Norris in the race.

At Imola he lost his front wing in first lap contact with Esteban Ocon, and later he blamed cold brakes when he stopped long in his pit stop, sending the team’s front jack man flying. He finished out of the points in 13th.

At both races he was comfortably outqualified by teammate Sergio Perez.

Green says that COVID-19 hit Stroll harder than the team had suspected, and believes that the Canadian’s huge crash in the Tuscan GP at Imola also took its toll.

“Obviously he's not where he was, for sure,” said Green. “From where he was at Monza, to where he is now, there's definitely a lack of confidence, which we're going to have to work on over the next week or so to try and get him back again.

“I think the illness did knock it out of him, that's something that we hadn't really foreseen.

“We had heard about the length of time it can take to recover from the illness, and I think it is taking some time.

“I think he just needs to get his confidence back again, and believe in himself again. And we'll get the Lance back that we had for the first two-thirds of the season."

Expanding on the causes, Green said: “He's obviously taken quite a battering physically and mentally. It was quite a big accident in Mugello. So I think that that probably dented his confidence.

“Physically, we thought it would be difficult at the last race to jump back in. I think that was true. I think now mentally he's just not where he was a few races ago. But I think he needs to get a couple of races under his belt, which is what he's done now.

“I think it is really, really fine margins. And if you're not on top of the car, and understanding where the tyres are, and getting them in their sweet spot, you can be made to look like an idiot.

“And we need to get him back onto track. We can do that. We've got the tools, we've got the people.

“I think half of it probably just needs a bit of an arm around him and a bit of a hug and saying, ‘Come on, let's pull yourself together now and let's get on with it, do the last few races and let’s try and get back to third in the championship.’

“I think he's more than capable of doing it. It's a bit tough on him at the moment.”

Green admitted that Stroll wasn’t helped at Imola by a set-up choice that the driver requested, which led to the team replacing part of the recent suspension update package with the earlier version.

“He actually went back on a portion of that suspension for this race. And I think in hindsight, he now realises that was probably a bad move.

“I think that's all part of a bit of a lack of confidence at the moment, and questioning now where the car is and what's changed,  and making sure that it's not something we've changed.

“I think that is part of that entry sharpness that you can see, that nervousness of turning in. I think that's something that was present this weekend, and something that we'll dial out.

“The previous version was a bit too slow, basically, he thought it wasn't fast enough. So he wanted it more reactive, and we made it more reactive. But now it's too reactive. So we'll have to go back. Now he's learned the lesson.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/perez-imola-pit-call-podium/4902716/
DATE: 2020

The late stop cost Perez a potential third place and left him rueing a “painful” outcome that saw him eventually cross the line in sixth.

From 11th on the grid Perez had used good tyre management and a long opening stint on mediums to get up to fourth, before switching to the hard tyres for the run to the flag.

When Max Verstappen’s retirement triggered a late safety car, the team was concerned that Perez would have trouble getting heat onto his hards at the restart – due to the very characteristics that had served him so well in the first part of the race. He was thus called in for a set of new softs.

However the three drivers immediately behind him, Daniel Ricciardo, Charles Leclerc and Alex Albon, all jumped him in the queue by staying out, leaving him in sixth for the resumption.

When the green flag flew, Perez lost a further place to Daniil Kvyat, who was also on fresh tyres. He then managed to pass Albon, but in the remaining laps he was not able to do anything about Leclerc up ahead, and thus had to settle for sixth.

Green said the way the car protected its tyres triggered the concerns about the restart.

“The race was going our way completely,” said Green. “Up until the safety car Checo manoeuvred himself, with great pace, up to fourth.

“He overtook the pack by going longer on the medium tyres, he drove really well, the car was really strong, we were very happy with where it was going.

“And the worst possible scenario was a safety car. And that was not really how we were geared up, unfortunately. It was always going to be a difficult decision, that one.

“We were on the hard tyres, the car had been set up, quite specifically, for the long runs, and for the race we were incredibly nervous about having to restart the hard tyres behind the safety car. And I think we would have struggled.

“So the safest thing to do and we thought that the most logical thing to do was to swap him for a set of the new softer tyres, so that we didn't have to worry about that. We thought other people might do the same, but a lot depends on how they were set up for the race.

“And I think it probably just showed where our race pace was, because we'd set the car up to look after the tyres and be kind and not overheat them. So we were always going to struggle behind the safety car in that situation.”

Green said the situation was made worse for Perez when George Russell crashed behind the safety car, extending the yellow period for a few more laps, and taking the edge off his new tyres.

“And then we've got the other thing with a second incident behind the safety car, we couldn't have predicted that one.

“So the number of laps remaining to overtake was shortened again, by a considerable margin. So I think that worked against us.

“Hindsight, we would have made a different decision. But I think at the time with the information we had that's the decision we came to.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/racing-point-slams-perez-double-reprimand-in-portugal/4899515/
DATE: 2020

if he gets a third in the course of this season, and Szafnauer says that the Mexican will now have to "drive like a saint" in the remaining five races.

Perez received the first for impeding Pierre Gasly in Q2 at Portimao, and was then given a second for a blocking incident with the same driver in the closing laps of the race.

Meanwhile, Max Verstappen escaped sanction  – after Charles Leclerc also went unpunished after a similar first lap clash with his Racing Point teammate Lance Stroll in Sochi.

"They didn't touch," said Szafnauer of the Gasly blocking incident. "Sergio moved first, before Gasly did. Sergio is allowed to make that move in defence, you can't move twice, but you're allowed to move once. Gasly got out of the throttle. And there's no contact.

"So why the reprimand? On lap one Sergio is hit by Verstappen, who comes back onto the track after being off track, comes back on acutely in order to get his car in a position so he has grip again, and runs into Sergio, and they do nothing.

"Sergio and Gasly don't touch. I mean, isn't that what the fans want? Hard defending, good racing? If we start reprimanding drivers and punishing them for racing hard, but safely, where's that going to take our sport?"

With regard to the Verstappen clash, he said: "That was a collision, right? So you've got to look at a collision. The Gasly/Sergio thing was not a collision. It was a good, hard defending, and you punish that?

"But then when somebody does collide, you don't do anything? That's two times in a row. I don't know if you saw Leclerc and Lance [in Russia], it is a very similar thing. You cause a collision and then nothing. So either we're consistent... We've just got to figure it out."

Szafnauer, who said he would bring up the subject in Monday's F1 Commission meeting, stressed that a reprimand was harsher than it might appear.

"So Sergio, in his whole career, has never been reprimanded ever. He's got two this weekend. One of one of which was in qualifying, where he made a mistake in one of the sectors, didn't realise Gasly was on a fast lap behind him, and got out of the way but not quickly enough.

"Well, Gasly got through Q2 into Q3, it didn't cause him any harm. Reprimand.

"You saw the other incident, reprimand. Now for the rest of the season, he's got to drive like a saint. He's not gonna be able to fight hard, because there is a risk of a reprimand, and then you get a 10-place grid penalty. So I think that's quite harsh. You may not think that reprimand was harsh, but it is."

Szafnauer was also frustrated that Stroll was given a five-second time penalty in Portugal for

"Lance tried a couple times to overtake him as he was quicker than Lando," he said.

"And Lando decided to stay in the middle of the track, put himself in the middle, probably to defend. And Lance had a choice of going on the inside or the outside, and he chose the outside and when he turned in, they came together.

"I think the decision was a bit harsh, to give him a penalty. Is that a racing incident? Lance was a bit ahead of Lando when he turned in, Lando put himself in the middle of the track, Lance was a bit quicker.

"I don't know if Lance could have without turning in, made the corner or got around there. To me a bit of a racing incident."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/perez-future-news-williams-links/4896113/
DATE: 2020

Perez has been looking for a seat since Racing Point opted last month to activate a release clause in his contract for 2021, making room for Sebastian Vettel to join the team.

Perez was linked heavily with a move to either Haas or Alfa Romeo, two of the few teams to hold a vacant seat for next year.

But with Haas seemingly set to bring in F2 driver Nikita Mazepin and one of Ferrari’s juniors, and Alfa Romeo closing in on retaining its existing line-up, an option for Perez has emerged at Williams.

Although Williams announced its line-up of George Russell and Nicholas Latifi for 2021 back in July, the team has since come under new ownership, with Dorilton Capital exploring options to bring in more backing.

When asked by Motorsport.com about the possibility of a switch to Williams for next year, Perez remained coy, but said he hoped to have news on his plans in the near future.

“As I’ve said before, I haven’t signed anything,” Perez said. "So I think at the moment, there’s not a lot that I have to report or say.

“I think the season is coming to an end, so it’s getting close, and I should be in a position to say something pretty soon I think.

“Up to now, I don’t think there’s a lot of point in giving away anything, because I want to keep my negotiations private.

“I think we’ve got to be respectful of all the teams that we’re talking to. So there is no point to discuss anything at the moment.”

Should Perez land a seat at Williams, it is likely that Mercedes junior Russell would be the driver to give up his seat, with teammate Latifi already bringing sizeable financial backing to the team.

as he had a firm contract in place for next year.

Perez acknowledged that there were not many teams he could speak to about an F1 drive for next year given that most have already finalised their line-ups.

“There are not many teams out there - actually very, very few teams,” Perez said. “It’s not like a number, but there are very few teams out there that have a good project.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aston-martin-hails-brilliant-vettel-for-integrity-and-integration/7040009/
DATE: 2021

Four-time F1 world champion Vettel joined the rebranded Aston Martin team for this season following his exit from , linking up with .

While Aston Martin slipped back to seventh in the constructors’ championship after being hurt by the downforce cuts under the tweaked regulations for 2021, Vettel was able to score the team’s best result of the season, finishing second in Azerbaijan.

Vettel came close to victory in Hungary, where he finished second before later being disqualified due to a technical infringement. The team announced in September that Vettel would be staying on for 2022 alongside Stroll.

Asked about Vettel’s integration at the team this year, Aston Martin boss Szafnauer said: “He’s been brilliant.

“He’s such a man of integrity, he works hard, great work ethic, leaves no stone unturned.

“The engineers like working with him, the mechanics love him as a person. He’s just a genuine guy. And that goes a long way in life.”

Sebastian Vettel, Aston Martin AMR21, in the pit lane

Photo by: Jerry Andre /

Vettel has gained widespread praise for his off-track efforts throughout this year, raising awareness for important environmental issues, as well as highlighting social matters such as speaking up for LGBT+ rights in Hungary.

Despite having known Vettel for over a decade, Szafnauer found it interesting to see so many of the traits he had heard about through a professional relationship, and was not surprised by his work ethic through the year.

“Everyone else that has worked closely with him talked about him in the same way that I’m talking about him now,” Szafnauer said.

“And socially, I could see those traits as well. So was I surprised, no, but I was delighted to have what I thought he was confirmed by his actions.”

Szafnauer acknowledged that it took Vettel a few races to get to know the team and get up to speed, but felt he had “done a good job”.

“His greatest quality as a racing driver is just relentlessly working at getting quicker and quicker and quicker,” Szafnauer said.

“He even does that in the race. So when he starts a race, he will look at other drivers and lines they’ve taken in the race, to see if he can learn even within a race to be able to go quicker or save the tyres more, or whatever you have to do. That to me is his biggest asset.”

Szafnauer picked out Hungary as being Vettel’s strongest race of the season, where he put  under race-long pressure in the fight for the win before finishing second and later being disqualified.

“Although the result didn’t count, through no fault of his own, I thought he drove a brilliant race in Budapest, and tried and tired and tried to overtake Ocon,” Szafnauer said.

“He wanted the win badly. It’s just so difficult to overtake in Budapest, unless you have a massive, massive car pace advantage, which we didn’t have.

“Had it been a little bit different, a bit quicker pit stop, had we just gotten out of the pits ahead of Ocon, I think he would have left him [behind].”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/vettel-aston-martin-miles-away-jeddah-q1-exit/6853264/
DATE: 2021

Vettel finished a lowly 17th in qualifying for the Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, only beating teammate  and the Haas cars to leave Aston Martin as the second-slowest team.

Vettel sounded disappointed over team radio when his engineer confirmed he had only finished 17th, lapping over two-tenths of a second shy of a Q2 berth.

Aston Martin had also featured towards the lower end of the practice session results, but Vettel was surprised by its struggles as nothing had changed on the AMR21 car since Qatar.

He put Aston Martin’s weaknesses down to tyre prep, a challenge several teams have struggled with this weekend, and the Jeddah street track not suiting his car.

“It’s the same car, so I think we are just not a good match to this track,” Vettel said.

“I struggled a bit to get the tyres to work, but I think so did everybody. So it's not efficient, I guess, around here, and doesn't play to our strengths.

“The laps feel good. The balance, once we get it, is OK, but we are miles away, and then you look at the onboard from the others.

"There’s no secrets, they are just faster.”

Sebastian Vettel, Aston Martin AMR21

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Vettel was caught up in a traffic jam towards the end of Q1 as a number of cars bunched towards Turn 27 ahead of their flying laps. The backing-up was sparked by , who was running slowly due to an engine misfire before he ultimately got back to the pits.

“[There were] too many cars in the same spot of the track and cars not able to queue,” Vettel said.

“Some of them [were] passing. It doesn't matter. But in the end, it was two Alpines that passed and everything started to be a mess. You run out of track and there's a car coming from behind and at that point it is carnage.

“I was happy that I got the lap. Nikita [Mazepin] behind me was side-by-side down the main straight and he aborted, so it could have been me the other way around and you don't even get the final shot."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/vettel-draggy-aston-martin-f1-car-a-main-weakness/6839234/
DATE: 2021

Aston Martin was hit hard by F1's aero rule tweaks for 2021 and has generally struggled to keep up with its midfield rivals throughout the season.

The former Racing Point team scored big in Monaco and Baku, where Vettel claimed his first podium for the Silverstone outfit but has since been emphatically outscored by  and , dropping down to a distant seventh in the constructors' championship.

According to Vettel, the team has been held back by excessive drag and a lack of downforce, a dreaded combination which he acknowledged is "difficult to overcome".

"We had races where the race felt really good, we had other races where I struggled a lot," Vettel said.

"Overall, what matters is how competitive you are. In competitive terms, I think our car is a bit too draggy.

"We are not having a super-efficient car, plus we don’t have enough downforce. That I think is the main weakness. From there, it’s difficult to overcome that."

The four-time world champion says he and teammate  tried hard to overcome Aston Martin's weaknesses by being smart about tyre wear, which opens up strategic options.

Last time out in Qatar Stroll managed to bag sixth after pulling off a one-stop.

"Some tracks helped it, other tracks we overcame it by maybe finding a good set-up and working well on tyres and finding a good strategy," Vettel explained.

"I think overall, when the car is in the window, then we can do a reasonable job and get into points. It’s first not always easy to get it into that window, and second, it’s extremely competitive in the area where we race.

"It seems like halfway through the season maybe other teams made a bit more progress than us now."

Sebastian Vettel, Aston Martin

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

The 2022 season can't come soon enough for Aston Martin as it hopes to capitalise on a clean slate offered by the rules overhaul to make a fresh start.

In the meantime, it has headhunted rival staff for several key technical positions to bolster the team on the long-term, with team owner Lawrence Stroll setting his sights on competing for world titles within five years.

Vettel says that while 2022 is still an unknown, the team's growth back in the factory is impossible to ignore.

"Obviously, the big unknown is for next year, what’s happening next year with the cars changing and so on, but we will only be able to answer that question next year," he added.

"But overall, the team I find is strong. In terms of engineering and in terms of trackside, it’s strong. I think it’s growing at pace and lots of plans and good things are coming."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aston-martin-headhunts-mercedes-aero-chief-blandin/6815958/
DATE: 2021

Blandin is still working at Brackley and is not expected to join his new team until October next year, after he has completed his gardening leave.

His appointment comes as a surprise as he is the first key player to be headhunted from , the power unit and gearbox supplier to Aston Martin.

An Aston spokesperson told Motorsport.com: “We can confirm that Eric Blandin will begin working for Aston Martin Cognizant F1 Team next year. His exact start date is not yet confirmed. The transition from Mercedes AMG F1 Team to ourselves will be an amicable one.”

The team has not specified what his role or job title will be.

Frenchman Blandin began his career at Italian wind tunnel concern Fondmetal Technologies in 1998, before moving to Jaguar Racing as an aerodynamicist in 2002.

He stayed with the Milton Keynes team through its transition to , becoming aero team leader before leaving at the end of 2009.

During that period he worked with Dan Fallows, who is leaving Red Bull to become Aston’s technical director by the start of next season.

From January 2010 Blandin spent 14 months as aero team leader at  before joining Mercedes in May 2011 as principal aerodynamicist. He was promoted to the role of chief aerodynamicist in September 2017.

Eric Blandin on the podium as Mercedes' team representative after Valtteri Bottas' win in the 2019 Japanese Grand Prix

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Blandin joins a long list of high profile Aston Martin recruits as Stroll continues to build up his team and make it a genuine title contender.

In addition to future technical director Fallows other key hires include engineering director Luca Furbatto, who was previously with , and head of technical operations Andrew Alessi, who comes from Red Bull.

Team principal Otmar Szafnauer recently made it clear that Aston Martin was still hiring as it prepared to challenge for the World Championship.

"Things haven't slowed down in the recruitment,” he said. “But unless they're very senior, we don't we don't announce everybody. We've hired over 150 people this year, and we will continue to hire.

“If we want to win a world championship in four years’ time it does take human resource, infrastructure, factory, wind tunnel, just like the top teams, and we're on that trajectory to do that.”

Szafnauer indicated that Furbatto will start soon: “Luca will be with us within weeks. Yes, he was announced. But you know, just like everybody they've got their notice periods. So within weeks, Luca will be free to start with us.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aston-martin-to-run-f1-sim-driver-yelloly-in-abu-dhabi-rookie-test/6780732/
DATE: 2021

The single day for rookies in standard 2021 cars will be run in parallel with a two-day 18-inch tyre test for race drivers.

Aston Martin doesn't have a young driver programme and, while it potentially has access to  protege Nyck de Vries, the Formula E champion is likely to be used by the works team for the rookie test.

The Silverstone outfit looked at other options but ultimately decided that giving Yelloly a chance to correlate the sim with the real current car was the most valuable way to use the test.

The 30-year-old BMW GT racer has undertaken two tests for the team in its previous guises. He did a day with Force India in Barcelona in 2015, and followed by two days at the same venue with Racing Point in 2019.

The former GP3 and GP2 racer won the Nurburgring 24 Hours in 2020, and has been heavily involved in the development of the marque's new-for-2022 M4 GT3 racer which replaces the outgoing M6.

"Nick is a really good guy and he's been with us quite some time," Aston team principal Otmar Szafnauer told Motorsport.com

"There were other opportunities, but we had to weigh up those other opportunities with doing this.

Yelloly has raced for BMW in the ADAC GT Masters series this year

Photo by: Alexander Trienitz

"You're not going to use your normal racing drivers anyway. So this is a perfect trade-off."

Szafnauer stressed that the team has much to gain by improving its sim correlation.

"[Yelloly] helps to develop the simulator itself, more so than the car," he explained.

"We always to try to get the software and the hardware of the simulator working a bit better.

"And to be able to do a really good job you need to in your mind be able to correlate what you're feeling in a simulation to a real car.

"And every once in a while you have to drive a real car. So this is one opportunity we have to put him in it to help with our development, and that's what we decided to do.

"It's a good use of our test day, and simulator development ultimately helps car development."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/szafnauer-has-no-intention-of-leaving-aston-martin-amid-alpine-links/6774346/
DATE: 2021

with a possible switch to  as part of the French team's management restructuring in the near future.

Szafnauer, who has long served as the boss of the Silverstone-based F1 squad from its Force India and Racing Point days, was recently joined at Aston Martin by former  F1 chief Martin Whitmarsh as Group CEO.

Szafnauer took to Instagram to call the reports "pure media speculation and not based on fact" on Thursday evening. Aston Martin had also responded to a request for comment by calling it "speculative conjecture".

It led to a grilling for Szafnauer about his future during Friday's FIA press conference at Interlagos, during which he said he was "as surprised as anybody else" to read the reports.

"It's always humbling and flattering to say if Alpine are reorganising, I think [Alpine CEO] Laurent Rossi said that in Mexico, for the media to speculate that I could be wanted there," Szafnauer said. "It's always nice to be wanted."

Asked by Motorsport.com if he could categorically say he would be with Aston Martin next year, Szafnauer said: "I've been at the team for 12 years, I have no intention of leaving.

"I love this team. Most of the senior managers, especially through Racing Point, the senior leadership team was recruited and put there by myself, and I have no intentions of leaving them.

"I've been loyal to this team. I've had many, many offers in the 12 years that I've been working for this team, especially in the days of the bankruptcy and insolvency.

"I could have left many times, but I'm loyal to the employees there."

Throughout the remainder of the press conference, Szafnauer was given a number of opportunities to directly deny he had been in contact with Alpine or could join them in the future, but fell short of doing so.

Otmar Szafnauer, Team Principal and CEO, Aston Martin F1, is interviewed

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

Szafnauer was asked if he was absolutely not joining Alpine at any stage in the future, to which he replied: "I learned a long, long time ago that predicting the future is an impossibility. And if I could do that, I would be in Vegas now."

Szafnauer said he had not spoken about the reports with Aston Martin team owner Lawrence Stroll, but felt sure they would catch up at some point soon.

"We haven't talked about rumours," Szafnauer said. "There's lots of stuff that goes on in the media that we don't talk about."

Despite being "reticent to disclose contractual details", Szafnauer did confirm that he had "a long-term contract in place with Aston" when asked by Motorsport.com if he had a deal for next year.

Szafnauer noted that "many, many teams" had contacted him about a possible job this year when asked if he'd had contact with Alpine, and then referred to a press conference which occurred seven months ago that he thought may have sparked the reports.

"I think it was, I was sitting next to Laurent Rossi when [Jonathan] McEvoy asked if Aston Martin were recruiting a CEO to take my job, and I knew nothing of that," Szafnauer said.

"Jokingly, Rossi said, 'ah, if you're leaving, come talk to us', and that was about it. I don't know if that's what sparked the Auto Hebdo article."

Szafnauer added: "Like I said, I'm fully committed to the team I'm in. I've been there forever. I have no intentions of leaving.

"I've got to focus on the rest of the season. The season hasn't gone quite to what we thought it was going to, how it was going to go."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aston-martin-f1-boss-szafnauer-set-for-shock-switch-to-alpine/6770226/
DATE: 2021

Just a week after  F1 CEO Laurent Rossi hinted at a  in a bid to move the French car manufacturer up the grid, there are mounting suggestions that Szafnauer has been poached from Aston Martin as part of this plan.

According to sources with good knowledge of the situation, Szafnauer has agreed to the move in principle but there is no formal confirmation yet.

It is unclear when any official announcement will be made. It could potentially come as early as this weekend's Brazilian Grand Prix, or it may wait for the winter to fall in line with a timeline laid out by Rossi.

Both Aston Martin and Alpine have declined to comment on the matter.

An Aston Martin spokesman said: "It's speculative conjecture. We couldn't comment on it therefore."

An Alpine spokesman added: "These are rumours that we are not going to comment on."

Szfanauer said on Thursday evening that the reports were just "media speculation".

"My Aston Martin team communications staff have correctly issued a spokesperson's statement to the effect that rumours linking me to Alpine F1 team are merely 'speculative conjecture' and that they would not therefore comment further," he wrote on Instagram.

"However, since the rumours have now been sensationalised on certain websites, creating a spiral of misinformation, l have taken the decision proactively to confirm hereby that the rumours are pure media speculation and not based on fact."

While there is no news yet about the position that Szafnauer could take, it is possible that his arrival will prompt a wider change of structure at Alpine.

There have been indications for some time that Alpine's racing director Davide Brivio will return to MotoGP for 2022 after deciding that he would prefer a return to two-wheeled racing.

Davide Brivio, Racing Director, Alpine F1, and Esteban Ocon, Alpine F1

Photo by: Charles Coates /

If Brivio does depart, it means that Szafnauer could fulfil more of a team principal role, with Alpine's executive director Marcin Budkowski taking more responsibility on the racing and technical side.

Rossi suggested recently that Alpine needed to shake things up for 2022 after feeling that its progress towards the front of the grid had stalled.

"I think the team has moved from P9 to P5, before the plateau we've reached, pretty well in the past years," Rossi told Motorsport.com.

"But now, to move to the next stage and become the best of the top teams rather than just the best of the rest, it's another evolution that is needed.

"So what I want to do is to keep the momentum of the prior season, that's why I want to keep that fifth position. I don't want us to regress.

"We learned a lot operationally this year, so that's always a plus. We're going to apply that next year, but then we're going to need to build muscles to grow and move from P5 to P1, race after race, season after season in the next few years."

If Szafnauer's departure is confirmed, then it is unclear at this stage who will replace him as team principal at Aston Martin.

The Silverstone squad recently hired former  team boss Martin Whitmarsh to a senior role with Aston Martin Performance Technologies, but he has been present at grands prix and would be an obvious candidate.

Speaking recently, Szafnauer said he did not expect Whitmarsh to be involved much in the F1 team – but a final call had not been made.

"I would imagine at the beginning, most of his time will be spent growing the Aston Martin Performance Technologies area, which is where his most recent expertise lies, and not focus so much on F1," he said.

"But the bit that hasn't been planned is how much of his time will be spent where."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/weight-a-key-factor-in-aston-martins-tweaked-green-f1-livery-choice/6692174/
DATE: 2021

The Silverstone-based team has begun looking into a potential tweak of its green livery for 2022, with the dark pantone having not been as good as it originally hoped.

While the team was happy with how the green looked in real life, the colours have not come across as well on television images.

And, in particular with the way that cameras pick up the light, the dark Aston Martin has often been hard to distinguish from the black  in certain angles.

Speaking earlier this year, team principal Otmar Szafnauer said that the type of green used on its car would be reconsidered.

"I think it's a stunning colour in the sun and when you're looking at it in person," he said.

"But I believe we should be looking at making it pop a little bit more on television, without losing the green when you're looking at it outside.

"I don't know if we can do that, but that's one thing that we're looking to do, just to make sure that it differentiates itself on TV from some of the other darker cars."

Talks at Aston Martin about its 2022 livery, and the choice of green, began this week at its Silverstone factory, with senior chiefs now working out what would be best.

Otmar Szafnauer, Team Principal and CEO, Aston Martin F1, is interviewed

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

But Szafnauer is clear that the team needs to carefully consider any change of green, and especially cannot choose one based on optics if it ends up adding too much weight to the car.

Asked by Motorsport.com about the latest situation on the paint scheme, Szafnauer explained that one of the key issues the team faced for 2022 was getting close to the minimum weight limit.

"We just started looking at that," explained Szafnauer in a media call ahead of the United States Grand Prix.

"We've had a senior team management meeting and we started talking about next year's paint, and how much of the car we will be painting next year, with what colour.

"But weight is also a big factor. We've got to take as much weight out as we can. So we're just in the process of that now."

Aston Martin is not alone in facing a battle to get its car close to the minimum weight limit for 2022.

New regulations, increased crash test demands, plus larger wheels and brakes, has led to an increase in the mass of cars – and teams are reluctant in the cost cap era about being forced to use expensive weight-saving materials.

The latest update of F1's 2022 regulations published this week lifted the minimum weight to 792kg for next year, but teams still think it will be tough to hit that.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/vettel-f1-must-ask-itself-if-money-comes-over-morals/6683512/
DATE: 2021

has prompted renewed concerns about regimes with poor human rights records using grand prix racing as a sportswashing exercise.

However, F1 chiefs and the FIA have long argued that sports should remain neutral, and that racing in places like that can have a positive by highlighting potential issues.

But Vettel thinks there comes a point where the sport has to make a decision on morality grounds, and not just because it wants to try to increase profits.

Speaking to selected media, including Motorsport.com, in a wide-racing interview on human rights, sustainability and tolerance, Vettel said that profits should not be the sole factor in deciding where sports events are hosted.

"I think the trouble is that ultimately a sport, and it's the same as a country, is governed by individual people," he said.

"Individual people have individual opinions, and backgrounds, whatever, so it is of course difficult.

"But we have to find the perfect people to sort of govern our sport, and then apply the right path going forward.

"There's more than just that interest, there's obviously huge financial interest, in going forward. But I think at some point you need to ask your question, and people in charge need to ask themselves the question: do you have a moral?

"Do you therefore say no to certain things? Or do you just say 'yes' to any big deal that's around the corner, but for the wrong reasons?

"I think that's the bigger picture stuff that people in charge ultimately need to ask themselves."

Vettel has been a strong campaigner this year on a number of issues, including the environment and highlighting LGBT rights.

And while F1 has made a lot of its #weraceasone campaign, Vettel believes that the sport needs to put actions behind its words, and do more than a simple ceremony before every race.

"I think there are certain topics that are too big to neglect," he said. "I think we all agree that – and this doesn't matter where you come from – it's only fair to treat people equally.

"I think there are obviously countries that have different rules in place, different governments, different backgrounds.

"Now, I can't speak for all the countries and be an expert, because I don't know. But obviously there's certain aspects in certain countries that I think I know about.

"We go to some of those places, and we roll out a huge carpet with nice messages on it. But I think it takes more than just words, I think it takes actions."

Sebastian Vettel, Aston Martin

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

Asked if F1 should be more militant, Vettel said: "I don't know what exactly is the best way to not just communicate on a flag that lies on the track for a couple of minutes.

"But certainly I feel that our sport could apply a lot of pressure and could be of immense help to spread that fairness around the globe even more.

"Because in the end, I think it's not right to judge people or to apply certain laws and to differentiate people just because they happen to love a man instead of a woman or a woman instead of a man.

"I think any form of separation is wrong. Imagine we would all be the same, I think we wouldn't progress.

"I mean, imagine all the cars would look the same in Formula 1. It would be boring: not just the same colour, but also the same aero bits. Now going more into our language, it would be absolutely boring, we would never make progress.

"And the same goes for us. I think we have evolved so much as human species, because we are all different in a way, and I think we should celebrate the difference, rather than be afraid of it."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aston-martin-trust-vettel-slick-tyre-call/6686174/
DATE: 2021

The German was running in 10th place when he was told there was a pitstop window as other drivers were stopping for a second set of intermediates.

Asked on lap 36 if he might want to try soft tyres should slicks become an option Vettel responded, “Medium, medium, let’s go for it. These inters can’t be any worse.”

The team confirmed that he should box and he came straight in. However, he almost lost the car as he accelerated out of the pit exit, and immediately realised his mistake.

Having twice gone off the road on his out lap and lost a lot of time he was called back in for fresh intermediates, losing more ground with a half-spin in the pit entry.

He tumbled down the order and was eventually classified 18th, ahead only of Haas drivers  and .

“He wanted to gamble himself, we didn't tell him no,” Szafnauer told Motorsport.com. “Seb came on the radio and he said, ‘I want dry tyres, put mediums on,’ and we didn't challenge him, we did what he said. It happened pretty quickly, so we didn't debate that long with him.

“Oftentimes we say that in drying conditions like that, it's a driver's choice. And we went with that. The other way round it's more of a team thing, but on a drying track the driver's out there feeling it.

“It's just I think this track here is a normal drying track, it doesn't dry normally so it's hard to predict. He knew right away the grip wasn't there, so he came in the next lap, but he lost a lot of time."

Sebastian Vettel, Aston Martin, on the grid

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

Asked if the team had any regrets given that a top 10 finish was potentially lost, Szafnauer said: "You have to trust him, and the other thing you got to trust is he is good in the wet and tricky conditions, and that's exactly what was out there.

“So if he says I can do it then who are we to argue? But I think this wasn't the norm, it's a different track in the wet. Should have, could have, would have, had it worked and he finished fourth or on the podium we would have been happy. So no risk, no reward.

“It wasn't just the one extra pitstop, because the pit loss is around 20 seconds around here, but it was the extra 30 seconds he lost on that lap and that's what killed him.

"On the intermediate he did really good lap times once he got through the graining phase."

Meanwhile Vettel’s teammate  earned two points with ninth place, having passed non-stopper  in the closing laps.

Szafnauer said of that drive: "A good solid performance, he had good lap times all race. I think we pitted him at the right time. We had a bit of a slow stop unfortunately, and it’s hard to tell where he would ended up. [Carlos] Sainz was pretty quick once he got through the graining phase. But so was Lance, so good performance."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/szafnauer-whitmarsh-arrival-doesnt-impact-my-role-at-aston-martin-f1-team/6678844/
DATE: 2021

of the newly-created Aston Martin Performance Technologies entity.

Since leaving McLaren in 2014, the 63-year-old has mainly been involved in the America's Cup with Ben Ainslie Racing, latterly as chairman of BAR Technologies.

He also briefly had a consultancy role with the FIA when the new financial regulations were being put together.

Szafnauer says that in his new job, Whitmarsh has a wider brief than just the racing team, encompassing Aston Martin's efforts to exploit F1 technology outside the sport, and thus his own responsibilities remain unchanged.

"The F1 side will remain under my leadership and remit," he said. "So I'll still be team principal and CEO. Martin will be group CEO, with the F1 side reporting through him.

"So I guess the only thing that hasn't been planned is how much of his time, because he's got the entire group, does he spend on each one of those entities?

"I would imagine at the beginning most of his time will be spent growing the Aston Martin Performance Technologies area, which is where his most recent expertise lies, and not focus so much on F1. But the bit that hasn't been planned is how much of his time will be spent where."

Martin Whitmarsh, Team Principal, McLaren

Photo by: Andrew Ferraro /

Szafnauer says that Whitmarsh brings valuable knowledge of using technology outside sport gained while working at both McLaren and with BAR. The team's new Silverstone base has been designed to encompass non-racing projects.

"He was there at McLaren when they started doing that, so he's got that experience, and he can lead us to shortcuts in doing that.

"He's also had seven years now of boat racing experience, including starting a new company that is taking technologies from boat racing and moving that technology into I think cargo ships.

"And it's an applied technology type business, technology transfer. He's got good experience in that, and he'll help us shortcut the development of our performance technology business."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sergio-perez-vettel-racing-point/4841149/
DATE: 2021

Four-time world champion  over joining the team for next season after Ferrari opted against renewing his contract beyond this year. , but said he has not signed any agreement with the team.

Racing Point currently has Perez and teammate Lance Stroll under long-term contracts. Perez is in the first year of a three-year deal, but the team has refused to rule out both drivers staying on for 2021. Stroll is the son of Racing Point owner Lawrence Stroll, making it likely that he would remain with the team for 2021 when it will be rebranded as Aston Martin.

Perez stressed last week that he had a valid contract for next season but has conceded he would be likely to leave should Stroll Sr. opt to sign Vettel to partner his son.

“I think [the choice] is obvious if someone has to go,” Perez said in an interview on Movistar+ F1. “I'm a dad, I wouldn't kick my son out, but there's not much I can say. There are many [rumours] around. From me, nothing – everything remains the same. I have a contract with the team.”

Perez revealed last week that he has  and teams in other championships about a drive for 2021 in light of the rumours. It has been reported that there is an exit clause in Perez’s contract that needs to be triggered by the team for him to leave for 2021 and make room for Vettel.

Perez said in the interview that his contract does have a break clause, relating to his sponsorship agreements. He has enjoyed significant backing from Mexican telecommunications giant Telmex.

“In all contracts, there are always clauses,” Perez said. “It is a bit related to sponsorship. That can open that clause. But we're working hard with all our sponsors so that this does not happen.

“I would not say that it depends on a single sponsor, it is more of an overall issue.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sergio-perez-vettel-racing-point/4841149/
DATE: 2021

Four-time world champion  over joining the team for next season after Ferrari opted against renewing his contract beyond this year. , but said he has not signed any agreement with the team.

Racing Point currently has Perez and teammate Lance Stroll under long-term contracts. Perez is in the first year of a three-year deal, but the team has refused to rule out both drivers staying on for 2021. Stroll is the son of Racing Point owner Lawrence Stroll, making it likely that he would remain with the team for 2021 when it will be rebranded as Aston Martin.

Perez stressed last week that he had a valid contract for next season but has conceded he would be likely to leave should Stroll Sr. opt to sign Vettel to partner his son.

“I think [the choice] is obvious if someone has to go,” Perez said in an interview on Movistar+ F1. “I'm a dad, I wouldn't kick my son out, but there's not much I can say. There are many [rumours] around. From me, nothing – everything remains the same. I have a contract with the team.”

Perez revealed last week that he has  and teams in other championships about a drive for 2021 in light of the rumours. It has been reported that there is an exit clause in Perez’s contract that needs to be triggered by the team for him to leave for 2021 and make room for Vettel.

Perez said in the interview that his contract does have a break clause, relating to his sponsorship agreements. He has enjoyed significant backing from Mexican telecommunications giant Telmex.

“In all contracts, there are always clauses,” Perez said. “It is a bit related to sponsorship. That can open that clause. But we're working hard with all our sponsors so that this does not happen.

“I would not say that it depends on a single sponsor, it is more of an overall issue.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/vettel-aston-martin-deal-2021/4835200/
DATE: 2021

The four-time F1 world champion is believed to have been offered a contract by team owner Lawrence Stroll, who is keen to build the strongest possible package for the rebranding of the current Racing Point team next season. Germany’s Bild newspaper, which is usually well-informed on Vettel’s plans, has indicated that a deal could be agreed soon.

The Silverstone-based team already has a multi-year contract with Sergio Perez, who also brings sponsorship, while the seat of Lawrence Stroll’s son Lance is clearly secure for the long term.

Since Vettel came onto the market after being dropped by Ferrari from the end of this season, Racing Point team principal Otmar Szafnauer has continually denied that the team will have a place for him.

When asked by Motorsport.com on Friday in Austria about the contract situation, Szafnauer said: “It is flattering that everyone thinks a four-time world champion should come to our team, but maybe that's because the car is a bit quicker now. You’re absolutely right, we have long contracts with both our drivers, so it would only be logical that we don’t have space.”

Perez was thought to have been well set at Racing Point because it was his legal action that triggered the administration process that saw Stroll take over the team then-named Force India. Stroll also has a relationship with the Mexican’s manager Julian Jakobi that dates back over two decades.

However, sources have indicated that Perez’s contract may have an exit clause that allows the team to make a change early. Intriguingly, Red Bull boss Christian Horner hinted at such a possibility when asked about Vettel’s future last weekend.

“I guess he’s got a couple of choices available to him – I assume either Racing Point, or a year out and re-evaluate the options in a year’s time,” he told Sky Sports F1.

“I don’t think Lance is going to get fired! Of course, drivers’ contracts between the teams, you never know what’s within them, it’s only the Contract Recognition Board that has full sight of them.

“I’m sure that perhaps they have options, or break points, or whatever. But that’s really none of our business.”

Stroll may have decided that in the bigger picture of rebranding the team as Aston Martin, and rebuilding the struggling sportscar manufacturer, the opportunity to take Vettel is too good to pass up. Vettel would also be very acceptable to Mercedes, supplier of power units and gearboxes to the team.

The DNAs of the two companies are combined somewhat, with Toto Wolff recently acquiring shares in Aston Martin, and former AMG man Tobias Moers coming in as its new boss.

Another intriguing aspect is that, should he moved to Aston, Vettel would be within the Mercedes camp and thus potentially available to switch to the Brackley team if a seat became available in future.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aston-martin-first-to-reveal-2023-f1-car-launch-date/10412132/
DATE: 2022

The Silverstone-based squad will unveil its new AMR23 F1 challenger with a live event from its Silverstone campus on February 13.

The reveal will take place in front of a small select audience as well as be broadcast across its digital channels.

Aston Martin is coming off the back of a disappointing 2022 campaign, where its AMR22 did not hit ambitious targets.

The team went the wrong route with its initial concept for the new ground effect car, as it suffered the same fate as  in being unable to run the car as low to the ground as it wanted.

It revamped its car from the Spanish Grand Prix, adopting more a Red Bull style approach, and managed to make some progress over the remainder of the year.

The team eventually finished seventh in the constructors’ championship, on equal points with  but lost the position to them because of count back.

Aston Martin’s biggest coup came in the summer, though, when it announced that it had signed  to replace the retiring  for 2023.

The Spaniard will race alongside .

Following the lessons learned from the first year of F1’s new rules era, Aston Martin has hinted about a fresh direction with its 2023 car.

Technical director Dan Fallows revealed recently that the new design will look different to what it raced this season.

“I mean there is a limit to what we can do with the current rules,” he said when asked if it will look visibly different. “I know that new cars always have to pass my test of my children. So if I put them in front of my children and they say they look different, then they look different.

“They always say they all look the same, daddy! But within the envelope of the rules that we have, then yes, there are significant differences on the AMR23.”

Alonso had his first run with Aston Martin in the post-season Abu Dhabi test at the Yas Marina circuit.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aston-martin-reveals-real-reason-behind-unique-scrubbed-tyre-tactics/10408570/
DATE: 2022

The Silverstone-based squad stood out on the grid this year for the way that it frequently went in to grand prix races with no new medium and hard compound tyres left.

That was because regularly in free practice sessions it scrubbed race sets of tyres for a single lap.

The tactic caused some intrigue and prompted theories that the team was doing it because it believed that putting tyres through a controlled and gentle heat cycle in a practice lap could make the cured chemicals more durable in race conditions.

However, Aston Martin’s performance director Tom McCullough has explained that its policy was actually prompted by it needing to ramp up its live pitstop tyre practice.

With its pit crew having had a tough time adapting to the heavier 18-inch tyres this year compared to other teams, especially amid the heightened pressure when a car comes in at racing speeds, Aston Martin elected to do something different.

McCullough said: “At the start of the year, we were really struggling with pitstops: we were the eighth, ninth or 10th best team at pitstops. And you can't really race strategically with poor and inconsistent pitstops.

“We found that in practice we weren't too bad. But, as the cars are rolling into the box, especially in a stack situation, we struggled for various reasons. So we started off by just saying: 'well, if we can do live pitstop practice during a race weekend, it helps. So how many can we do?'

“Often we do it on tyres that we don't even use in the race. So it’s just to give the pitstop practice a go. That is the main reason for doing it.”

Sebastian Vettel, Aston Martin AMR22

Photo by: Andy Hone /

McCullough did believe, however, that there were some specific events where a scrubbed tyre could be more beneficial than a brand new one for the race.

“We do try to understand those compounds, and there are some very small circumstances at certain tracks where maybe it helps,” he said. “But generally it's not the reason we're doing it.

“There are pros and cons, but from a pure start performance side of things, you want to be on a new tyre.”

F1 tyre supplier Pirelli had noticed Aston Martin’s scrubbed tyre tactics this year, but had always doubted it brought any performance advantage.

Speaking recently about whether there were gains to be had from scrubbing tyres, Pirelli’s head of F1 and car racing Mario Isola said: “I spoke to Aston Martin many times about that and in my opinion, with our tyres, with the characteristics of our compound, this is not very useful, I will say.

“But it is their choice. It is not forbidden. And they can do that. Usually this lap to scrub the tyre, maybe you take out the peak of grip, but you stabilise a little bit more the compound. But it depends on how the compound is designed.

“But the level of curing of the compound and knowing our product, I would say that is not really making a difference.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aston-martin-2025-f1-car-will-be-first-to-benefit-from-new-wind-tunnel/10409910/
DATE: 2022

The wind tunnel is part of the new factory project currently underway at Silverstone, but while the main facility is scheduled to be occupied by next May, the adjacent tunnel won’t be in use until the following year.

The team currently used the  tunnel in Brackley, and will do the initial work on the AMR25 in that before making the switch to the new facility when it is completed and fully tested.

“The target for the wind tunnel is to be online in the middle of 2024,” said technical director Dan Fallows. “We’re hoping that will have at least some contribution to the ’25. I think depending on how the commissioning and things of the tunnel goes, that will be probably the first car that will have a significant impact with the new tunnel.

“In terms of the factory itself, that’s coming online next year with various stages, so we’re hoping that the cars prior to that will see the benefit of the new factory as well.”

Aston Martin Silverstone factory rendering

Photo by: Aston Martin Racing

Fallows noted that switching to a new wind tunnel is not the work of a moment, and the team will only use it when it is fully correlated.

“Inevitably when you build a wind tunnel you have to go through a commissioning process,” he said. “And that’s really just to determine that it’s going to give you the numbers you expect to see.

“We’re fortunate enough to be testing in the Mercedes wind tunnel, which is a very high quality facility, so we need to make sure our new facility is giving results which are consistent with those.

“And that does take a certain amount of time. But there are things we can do to speed up that process. Obviously the target is to get in there as soon as we can.”

Fallows stressed that a state-of-the-art in-house tunnel will be a huge boost for the team.

“There’s no doubt that it will be a world-class facility, and having access to that 24/7 if required is obviously very important.

“As we improve and our wind tunnel runs availability that we have from the Aerodynamic Testing Restrictions goes down, clearly we wouldn’t be spending as much time in the tunnel, but having your own facility means you can do other experiments as well, which is invaluable, and something we don’t necessarily have the luxury of doing at the moment sharing the tunnel with another team.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aston-martin-alonso-very-impressive-in-abu-dhabi-f1-test-debut/10408166/
DATE: 2022

Alonso was released by  to drive an unbranded AMR22 in the Pirelli tyre test that followed the Abu Dhabi GP, giving him a useful head start as he gets to know his new team.

He may get more running in the 2022 car as Pirelli starts its 2024 tyre testing programme in the new year.

“It was very impressive, very impressive by the efficiency of transmitting the messages,” said Krack of the Abu Dhabi outing.

“It was straight to the point at all times, and it was very friendly and open, transparent, I think in both directions. We’re very pleased with how this day went, really.”

Asked to compare Alonso with his predecessor  Krack said: “Different, yes, because they have different backgrounds. One is Latin, one is German. That makes a big difference.

“But what they have in common is the focus, the focus on improving, the focus on making progress, and also isolating what makes us progress instead of maybe being detailed. Some similarities, but also some differences.”

Fernando Alonso, Aston Martin

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Krack said it was already apparent that Alonso will be a motivating force for the team.

“I think with Fernando, I always hold up this picture from the Mexican Grand Prix about his frustration of not having finished seventh. This is an example of the dedication and motivation.

“So if you have someone with this passion and drive to win, I think he has an impact on the team, and we could clearly see that, how everybody was really happy to have this guy in the car.

"I think he ignites maybe another spark from his own passion and desire to win onto the team.”

Krack hinted that Alonso could remain involved with Aston Martin even after he retires from the cockpit: “We’ve had some very good conversations already with him. This in my opinion can go beyond driving.

"Fernando joining us has been a core part of the team, and we have to see how this is going to develop. But I think he can have a big role to play in the future of the team.”

Aston Martin technical director Dan Fallows agreed that Alonso can make a significant contribution to moving the team on.

“From a technical perspective it’s important that we have drivers who are able to give good feedback,” said Fallows.

“I don’t say positive feedback, because that’s not always the case. But good feedback, and able to describe how they are feeling in the car, that is very important for us.

“We are very fortunate in that Lance [Stroll] is very good in that respect as well.

"I don’t think by Seb leaving that we were missing anything particularly.

"But we do want to produce a car that is significantly better for next year, we do want to see that progress, and we need to make sure we have drivers who can extract the most out of that.

“As I say, with Lance I think we have a driver who is able to drive the car, clearly Fernando has a huge amount of experience and has a proven track record of doing that as well. It’s a very exciting driver line-up.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alonso-making-success-of-f1-comeback-not-to-be-underestimated/10405081/
DATE: 2022

The two-time world champion returned to grand prix racing at the start of 2021, having spent two seasons away from F1 following his departure from  at the end of 2018.

While the initial races after his return were difficult for him, as he admitted to playing catch-up in getting used to the cars, tyres and controls, he made rapid progress over the second half of that campaign.

And, off the back of some impressive performances in 2022, Alonso has netted himself a long-term contract to race for Aston Martin from next year.

While he now appears to be back to peak form, and claims he is driving better than ever, the Spaniard concedes that it has not been a straightforward path to get there.

In particular, he suggests that even he had doubts about whether or not he could make a success of it after his initial laps back in an F1 car at the end of 2020.

“Coming back to the sport is never a guarantee that you will be okay and competitive, and you still enjoy everything in Formula 1,” he said.

“So I had some concerns, obviously, two years ago, when I did the demo [in Abu Dhabi], before the young driver test in 2020.

“And I think last year I was not maybe 100 percent happy with the performance and with how the season went.

“This year, I'm much more happy with the car and with the performance itself, and much more I think ready for the next challenge.

“So, you cannot underestimate coming back to the sport. But you need a few races or even one full season to feel 100 percent again, and it is what happened to me. But I'm happy now that I feel a very good level.”

Fernando Alonso, Alpine A521

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

While Alonso enjoyed his time away from F1, he says that returning to F1 came on to his radar when plans for a new rules era were finalised.

“In 2018, for me, even the front wing, I don’t know if you noticed, it was written ‘see you later,’" he said. “It was not a bye-bye.

“So in a way, in my head, it was always the 2021 rules, an opportunity to come back.

“I had in my head different challenges at that point. I wanted to race in Daytona, in Dakar, in Le Mans. I wanted to fight for a World Endurance Championship. I don't know, I had different things, and Formula 1 was not a priority, or I didn't have my head in Formula 1 anymore.

“But I love Formula 1. And I felt that in 2021 it could be an opportunity with the new rules and maybe everything re-shuffles a little bit, in terms of how the teams are, or the competitiveness of them.

“So I fulfil all my boxes in those years away from Formula 1, and I still watch the races at home. And yeah, the rules. They postponed the rules one year for 2022. But I came in 2021 anyway.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/unbranded-aston-brought-back-memories-of-2002-jaguar-f1-test-for-alonso/10404748/
DATE: 2022

Ahead of his move to Aston Martin for 2023, Alonso was permitted to complete a first run with the team earlier this week in the post-season test at the Yas Marina Circuit.

, and said he was now  to leave  for the British team after the first run-out.

But the car had to test without any sponsors due to Alonso’s existing agreement with Alpine, meaning it was stripped back to its base green livery, only featuring decals for Aston Martin, Pirelli and the FIA. Alonso also had to wear black overalls and a dazzle camouflage helmet design for the day.

When Alonso first walked in to the garage alongside Aston Martin ambassador and former grand prix driver  on Tuesday morning, both realised it was similar to when he tested for Jaguar in 2002.

“We entered the garage this morning together, and we saw the green car,” Alonso said when asked by Motorsport.com about the connection.

“We both said: ‘This is exactly as Jaguar in 2002!’ But yeah, this is completely a different project for sure.”

Fernando Alonso, Jaguar R3

Alonso was working as Renault’s test driver through 2002 when he was drafted in by then Jaguar F1 boss Niki Lauda to complete a test in the R3 car at Silverstone at the end of May.

The season saw de la Rosa race for Jaguar alongside , but the team struggled for form, scoring just eight points and finishing seventh in the standings, its form improving after introducing a B-spec car mid-year.

“This morning when Fernando came, we were looking at the car unbranded, and I joked with him because back in 2002, we did a test with Jaguar,” de la Rosa recalled in Abu Dhabi on Tuesday.

“I was racing there. They got Fernando in to say how quick can this car go, because Niki was starting to think myself and Eddie were just having fun there! The car was unbranded, green, he had a completely white overall, now he has black.

“I looked at him and he said you remember? And 20 years later, it’s exactly the same scenario: a green car, in unbranded overalls.”

At the time of his test in 2002, Alonso was being linked with a potential move to Jaguar in the Spanish media, and although he set the third-fastest time of the test at Silverstone, he maintained he was “only thinking about Renault” for the future.

Renault would ultimately hand Alonso a race seat for 2003, when he became the youngest race winner in F1 history before going on to win championships with the French manufacturer in 2005 and 2006.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alonso-100-plus-per-cent-happy-with-aston-martin-move-after-first-f1-test/10403714/
DATE: 2022

Alonso dropped a bombshell on the F1 driver market when he signed a deal in July to join Aston Martin for next year, leaving  after two years.

Although Alonso does not officially start with Aston Martin until the new year, the two-time world champion was able to take part in Tuesday’s post-season test running in Abu Dhabi with the British team.

Alonso completed 97 laps in the AMR22 car, setting the third-fastest time of 1m26.312s before handing over to  for the remainder of the Pirelli tyre running at the Yas Marina Circuit.

Summing up his day, Alonso said he was “happily surprised by everything” during the running, which was largely aimed at helping him adjust to the different feeling of the Aston Martin car.

“This year’s car is not anywhere near of what we will run next year,” said Alonso.

“It was not really anything really to get confident or anything like that, it’s not that it’s going to be a continuation of this car or anything like that.

“For sure, they had a very strong weekend here. Sebastian [Vettel] qualified in front of me, so I don’t think there was much of a difference between Aston Martin and Alpine on the weekend.

“I felt basically the same as well, I felt a very competitive car. Both Aston Martins finished in the points, so it was a good car anyway.”

Fernando Alonso, Aston Martin AMR22

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Asked if he felt as optimistic after the test as he did before getting in the car on Tuesday morning, Alonso replied: “No, I’m much more optimistic now.

“When I signed for Aston Martin, I was 90% happy. When they started improving and finished the season on a high, I was 100%. This morning, I was 100 and now I’m 100-plus.”

Alonso endured a frustrating year with Alpine in 2022 as recurring reliability issues resulted in six DNFs, leaving him behind team-mate  in the final standings. He said his retirement from the final race of the year in Abu Dhabi was a “summary of the season” after a water leak emerged on his power unit.

But Alonso was happy with the reliability shown by the  power unit used by Aston Martin in the test.

"When they told me the mileage of the engine yesterday night, I was concerned, because I said that number is a little bit high on my standards,” said Alonso.

“But we did 97 laps no problem, so it’s outstanding for sure.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/abu-dhabi-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026193/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/vettel-was-coming-alive-in-final-f1-qualifying-session/10402447/
DATE: 2022

Leaving behind the inevitable distractions of his last race weekend before entering retirement, Vettel was sixth fastest in Q1 and showed great commitment as he weaved his way through slow-moving cars at the end of the lap.

He was then eighth in Q2, having he felt he'd lost a little time after following a Red Bull across the line in both sessions.

In Q3 he had a clean lap on his way to ninth on a day when his Aston Martin teammate  qualified only 14th.

"I think it was a good session," said Vettel when asked by Motorsport.com about his charge to Q3.

"I'm happy with how the session went. It was a bit emotional before getting in the car, but once I was in the car it was all thoughts in into qualifying the laps.

"It was coming alive, I was coming alive. So it felt good. Always in the laps before the Q3, it was always a Red Bull in the last corner. If you staged it, you probably wouldn't be able to.

"But yeah, the last lap was clear."

Elaborating on an emotional weekend, Vettel admitted that his thoughts before qualifying had been on "the people that can't be here because they're not with us anymore, or they didn't make it".

"There's a lot of people that are here, which is very special," he said.

Sebastian Vettel, Aston Martin AMR22

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

"But yeah, it's been a long time [in F1] and it's a funny feeling, I have to admit. But as soon as you're in the car and you drive out, you're quite busy so I guess it's a good sign.

"And I enjoy it most when I'm present, and I was, I think it was a good session."

In addition to the obvious personal target of points in his final race, his Aston Martin team needs Vettel to score well in order to beat  to sixth in the championship.

"Absolutely, we'll try to do that," he said. "I mean, we'll see what happens, but I feel we have the right tyres with us. And yeah, I think it should be a good race."

Vettel's friend and long-time rival , who will switch from  to replace him at Aston Martin next year, was pleased to see the German make Q3.

"Yeah, I was very happy," said the Spaniard, who qualified 11th in a special helmet paying tribute to Vettel.

"It's not that we try to help him, but we will all try to have an eye on him when we see him on the mirror, or when he's coming on the fast lap or whatever, because we want a smooth weekend for him.

"Even tomorrow I think he starts ninth, I start 10th [after a three-place grid penalty for  carried over from Interlagos], so I will take care of him at the start and the first lap.

"Let's hope we both see the chequered flag."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alonso-first-aston-martin-f1-test-an-important-opportunity/10400643/
DATE: 2022

After two campaigns with  following his F1 comeback at the start of 2021, Alonso is switching to Aston Martin for next year after signing a long-term deal.

As part of an arrangement among several teams for them to try their new 2023 drivers in the Abu Dhabi test after the F1 finale, Alonso has been released by Alpine and is scheduled to get a day’s running with Aston Martin.

And while the run will not give him much indication of what’s to come from the team’s AMR23, the day will bring benefits to help him hit the ground running when the 2023 challenger does run for the first time.

“It is important,” he said about the test. “Performance-wise, it will not be important, because the car will be very different next year for everyone.

“But in terms of comfort, seat, steering wheel, the buttons, things that I would love to maybe change and get into my tailor-made everything, it will be nice to have a day in the car. So I’m looking forward.”

Aston Martin has shown some promising signs of progress in recent races, although it did suffer a lacklustre weekend in Mexico where its car did not suit the track and altitude.

Alonso has said he welcomes the fact the team appears to be moving forward but reckons there will be no real satisfaction until it is at the front of the grid.

Lance Stroll, Aston Martin AMR22, Fernando Alonso, Alpine A522, Zhou Guanyu, Alfa Romeo C42

Photo by: Andy Hone /

“I don’t think that anyone in Aston Martin is this year looking at the results so much,” he said.

“It’s good to see some improvement, but I think Aston Martin is not here to finish fifth or sixth or fourth in the constructors’ championship. It’s here to win the world championship, and that’s what we’ll try to do in 2023 and 2024.”

Alonso thinks one factor that he hopes goes his way next year is luck, with him reckoning he has lost around 60 points this season through poor reliability and misfortune at Alpine.

“I think after 2022, I will have a massive luck next year on everything,” he said. “It has been amazing this year.

“I know there were a lot of talks after Mexico, five DNFs this year with engine issues, but there are another four races that I finished all without battery, or the car didn’t start in Austria, or I lost one wheel in the pit stop.

"So it was amazing: 20 races, to have problems in nine or something. It’s nearly 50 percent of the races.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sao-paulo-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026150/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mexico-city-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026105/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-reserve-drivers-all-teams-backup-2023/10437681/
DATE: 2023

Formula 1 teams are well underway preparing for the forthcoming 2025 campaign, which will consist of 24 grands prix beginning in Melbourne on the 14-16 March.

The grid is set and all but two teams -  and Aston Martin - have changed their driver line-up, meaning this year will have a new look.

But it is not just the full-time competitors that play a crucial role, as a team’s back-up driver does as well.

Reserve drivers act on standby during grand prix weekends and may contest one should a team’s regular driver be unable to. This happened at the 2024 Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, for example, as .

F1 teams also employ simulator drivers, who test changes made to the car so that everybody can gain a greater understanding of the machine.

So, who are the drivers supporting their team behind the scenes for 2025?

Liam Lawson served as Red Bull’s reserve driver at the start of the 2024 season, but then .

. This means Red Bull is currently without an official reserve driver, though Lawson’s former team-mate Yuki Tsunoda is expected to step into the role.

Meanwhile, Rudy van Buren will continue as Red Bull’s simulator test and development driver after joining in 2023.

Rudy van Buren, Red Bull F1 Simulator Test and Development Driver

Photo: Red Bull Racing

, but in a reserve driver capacity having been ’s team-mate from 2017 to 2021. The 10-time grand prix winner left for  - now  - having been replaced by George Russell, who was previously at  after graduating to F1 as a Mercedes junior.

But the Swiss outfit opted for an all-new line-up this year ahead of its Audi takeover in 2026, leaving Bottas without a drive. So, in December 2024 Mercedes announced that the Finn was back with the Silver Arrows replacing former reserve Mick Schumacher, who is part of Alpine's Hypercar programme.

Sharing the role with Bottas is the 2023 F2 championship runner-up Frederik Vesti, who started the position last year having become a Mercedes junior in 2021.

, having been part of its academy between 2015 and 2018. He initially left to become Renault’s development driver in 2019 before making his F1 debut with Alfa Romeo in 2022 but, like Bottas, he was dropped by the Hinwil-based outfit for this year.

He will work alongside , who was Zhou's predecessor at Alfa Romeo. The Italian became Ferrari’s reserve driver in 2022 and Giovinazzi also competes for the historic brand in the World Endurance Championship, where he won the 2023 Le Mans 24 Hours.

Regarding Ferrari’s development drivers, that includes Arthur Leclerc who joined in 2024. He is the younger brother of full-time Ferrari driver  and is joined by  and Davide Rigon.

Zhou Guanyu, Ferrari reserve driver

McLaren is yet to announce who its reserve drivers for 2025 are, with previous incumbent . But Arrow McLaren IndyCar driver Pato O’Ward has previously contested F1 practice sessions for the Woking-based team, so it is likely he will continue his commitments.

McLaren also employs , who spends a lot of time in the team’s simulator where he works closely with the engineers and regular drivers.

Aston Martin has retained Felipe Drugovich and  as its reserve drivers for 2025. Previously the team was able to call on the reserves of engine partner Mercedes in case of an emergency but in more recent years, Aston Martin has introduced its own reserve drivers.

While Vandoorne joined from Mercedes in November 2022, Drugovich has graduated from the Aston Martin driver development programme and the 2022 F2 champion has worked with the squad since 2023.

Felipe Drugovich, Aston Martin F1 Team

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Jack Doohan will contest his first, full campaign in F1 this year after serving as Alpine’s reserve driver in 2024 before replacing  at the Abu Dhabi season finale.

As a result, Alpine has announced Paul Aron, Ryo Hirakawa and Franco Colapinto as its reserve drivers for 2025.

Aron had a stellar F2 campaign last year, finishing third to champion Gabriel Bortoleto and Isack Hadjar, while Hirakawa has joined from McLaren where he held a similar role.

There is more hype around Colapinto though, who made his - relatively unexpected - F1 debut in Monza 2024 having replaced Logan Sargeant at . He impressed immediately finishing 12th before taking points at his second grand prix in Azerbaijan with eighth.

But Williams had already announced  as ’s team-mate for 2025, so there was no full-time seat for Colapinto. As a result, , where a spot may soon open up for the young Argentine given Doohan’s unsecure future.

Williams does not currently employ its own reserve driver, as previous incumbent Colapinto has left for the same role at Alpine after impressing for the British squad in his nine-round stint last year.

Jamie Chadwick, meanwhile, serves as its development driver after joining Williams in 2019 which is the year she clinched her first of three W Series titles.

Jamie Chadwick, Williams

Hadjar served as Racing Bull’s reserve driver last year, when it was known as . But following Lawson’s promotion, Hadjar will partner Tsunoda for his rookie season leaving Racing Bulls currently without an official reserve driver.

Considering its close ties with Red Bull though, the Faenza-based squad can call on whomever is in the Red Bull pool.

Zane Maloney and Theo Pourchaire have left the Sauber set-up since acting as reserve drivers last year. The Swiss outfit is yet to confirm who will support its all-new line-up of  and Bortoleto before the squad morphs into the Audi works team in 2026.

Haas is also yet to announce its reserve driver for 2025 having promoted previous incumbent Bearman to a full-time seat at the American squad. One option could be Pietro Fittipaldi though, as the grandson of double world champion Emerson joined the team in 2019 and in that time has started two races due to ’s crash at the 2020 Bahrain Grand Prix.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-tech-review-aston-martin-racing-strong-stumbles/10562071/
DATE: 2023

This left it with the responsibility of nipping at the heels of  during the first few races but, as the order re-established itself,  slid back down the standings.

But it did finish two places above its 2022 position. Let’s have a look at what made the AMR23 tick throughout the season.

Aston Martin AMR23 sidepods view

Aston employed a deeper trench-style gulley in the upper surface of its sidepods, as it looked to deliver better flow over the sidepod to the rear of the car, while also profiting from the wider sidepod layout that the downwash ramp-style sidepod affords in dealing with the front tyre wake.

Photo by: Erik Junius

Aston Martin AMR23 detail

A top-down overview of the AMR23’s sidepod bodywork and how the gulleys are pinched towards the rear section.

Aston Martin Racing AMR23, front wing endplate

The rearmost front wing flap on the AMR23 features a twisted profile, of which only the rear portion is connected to the endplate, with a metal insert used to prevent it flexing too much. The front section of the flap is then twisted away from the endplate to aid in generating the desired outwash effect.

Aston Martin AMR23 caliper detail

Aston Martin was one of the handful of teams to utilise tube-like cooling fins on its brake calipers to reduce weight and improve cooling (highlighted in yellow).

Aston Martin AMR23 brake drum detail

The front brake assembly has an internal drum section in the upper half with a trench section, which is divisible by a curved strake to help divert the airflow dispatched from the outlet beside it.

Aston Martin AMR23 brake drum detail

A look beneath the trench section shows how the fairing wraps around the front disc.

Aston Martin AMR23 brake drum detail

The rear disc is similarly covered by a fairing to help with temperature control, while we’re also able to see how the caliper is enclosed.

Aston Martin AMR23 technical detail

A close up of the rear section of the floor, including the cutout and tab-like winglet connected to the underfloor skate. Also note how the rear corner of the floor is rolled up, not only on the outer edge but also the trailing edge.

Aston Martin AMR23 rear wing end plate detail

Aston Martin was one of the first teams to employ the swage line on the lower outer face of its endplate (red arrow), with the surface used as a means to create some outwash and connect the various aerodynamic structures within its vicinity.

Aston Martin AMR23 technical detail

An overview of the AMR23’s rear end, including the stepped lower edge of the brake duct winglet, the steepening of the diffuser profile near the trailing edge and the trimmed rear wing element.

Aston Martin AMR23 technical detail

A side view of the rear wing showing the difference in distribution between the mainplane and upper flap, while also showing the shape of the upper flap’s leading edge.

Aston Martin AMR23 technical detail

A close up of the forward portion of the floor showing off the various contours of the lipped edge.

Aston Martin AMR23 technical detail

An overview of the chassis, sidepod inlet, undercut and the floor fences, with a stepped approach take on the upper edge of the latter and a pinched feature used between the lower surface of the chassis and leading edge of the floor.

Aston Martin AMR23 technical detail

A look at the internal structure of the nose while the vanity panel is detached also reveals how sensors are packed within.

Aston Martin AMR23 rear brake detail

Rows of flow diverters placed in the trench section of the rear brake duct’s inner drum.

Aston Martin AMR23 Detail

A Kiel probe rake is attached to the side of the car at the Spanish Grand Prix so the team can gather data to ensure they have correlation between their simulation tools and the real world environment.

Aston Martin AMR23 detail

A close up of the tab-like winglet that juts out from the underfloor and between the two edges of the rear floor cutout.

Aston Martin AMR23 side Canadian GP

Changes were made to the sidepod and engine cover bodywork at the Canadian Grand Prix to refine the airflow’s behaviour. Meanwhile, the upper cooling panels were also altered.

Aston Martin AMR23 rear detail

A close up of the swage line in the lower half of the rear wing endplate.

Aston Martin AMR23 detail

As part of the update package for the Canadian Grand Prix, the team pushed the lower section of the sidepods bodywork out to try and help squeeze the airflow outwards.

Aston Martin AMR23 detail

The gulley in the upper surface of the sidepod was also revised in terms of where it begins and how steep the transition is into the gulley.

Aston Martin AMR23 technical detail

An overview of the front wing which no longer featured the semi-detached rear flap design, with all of the elements now skewed from the endplate’s plane to help generate outwash.

Aston Martin AMR23 new fin

If there’s an area in the regulations where bodywork can be placed then teams are sure to find a way to use it, with Aston Martin doing exactly this at the Dutch Grand Prix when it introduced a crash structure bow-tie winglet. This device, to help with flow through the diffuser, required new pitstop equipment to be introduced, but even with this it didn’t prove easy to keep the winglet intact during pitstops, meaning the team used the solution sparingly.

Aston Martin AMR23 detail

An unusual view of the rear wing, showing how the beam wing element is connected to the crash structure, how thick the swage line is on the endplate’s outer face and the metalwork involved with the central pillar.

Aston Martin Racing AMR23 technical detail

A look inside the sidepods without the bodywork in place allows us to see how things are packaged, whilst also revealing the floor stay also hidden away within.

Aston Martin AMR23 floor comparison

Aston introduced a new floor at the United States Grand Prix, which featured the elongated external edge wing that many of their competitors had already been using. The edge wing, like their rivals’ designs, had a twisted profile, with the forward portion rolled over to reveal three strakes beneath.

Aston Martin AMR23 diffuser technical detail

A rear view of the AMR23 shows us the minimised cooling solution used in the low temperatures at the Las Vegas Grand Prix, whilst just a single element beam wing configuration was deployed to help boost straightline speed.

Here’s the list of the components that Aston listed as having changed in the car presentation document prior to each race.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/stroll-says-he-couldnt-doubt-himself-amid-f1-mid-season-struggles-/10559739/
DATE: 2023

While the Spaniard logged eight podiums, Stroll's best result was a fourth in the high-attrition Australian GP.

However, after struggling to come to terms with the AMR23 for much of the year, Stroll finished the season on a high with solid fifth places in Brazil and Las Vegas.

Stroll says those late-season results were a reflection of him feeling more comfortable with the car as changes made it more to his liking.

"It feels good to do well, for sure," he said. "But I knew that if I feel the platform working well underneath me, and I can drive the car freely without kind of dealing and driving around things that inherently bothered me in the car, I'd be at a good level and I'd get the most out of myself.

"And I know that for a few months with changes that were made, there were weekends where I just couldn't get into that place where I felt free in the car, and I can just drive at my best. Because it just wasn't behaving the way I wanted.

"And at this level when you have those issues, when the car is just not behaving how you want inherently, and it doesn't agree with your driving style, it won't work.

"And I think in those moments you can't put the doubt on yourself, it's like you just have to know that when it's going to be there and it's going to behave the way you want, it's going to go well, and when it's not there it's not going to behave the way you want it's going to be more challenging.

"That's F1, the drivers are all very high level, you can never be competitive if you're not comfortable and confident in your car and just driving freely and it's working. I think that's my perception of it."

Photo by: Jake Grant /

Lance Stroll, Aston Martin AMR23

Stroll's season was also marked by technical issues which frequently cost him valuable time in practice and sometimes afflicted his races.

"Yeah, it's been a season with a lot of bad luck, a lot of missed opportunity," he said. "I don't like using the words bad luck, but I think missed opportunities.

"But I guess it's bad luck when I think about the failures and stuff. We had races like Saudi running P4, engine problem, Monaco quali, hitting debris. Damage to the car in Q2 and starting from mid-pack in Monaco, you lose your weekend. I think back to places like Suzuka, having a good race, rear wing failure.

"In Zandvoort we missed the pitstop when the rain came down, we stayed out on track, it was a wrong decision. We were in a good place to score big points there. But I think that's part of the season."

Reflecting on his misfortunes, he said: "Sometimes it goes your way a lot. And sometimes it doesn't always go your way.

"And I think as long as you try and just kind of stay present and focus on one weekend at a time, all these things that kind of go wrong can change very quickly the next race, and they all go right.

"And if you're not totally present and caught up in the past, about everything that did happen, sometimes you miss those opportunities when they can next present themselves. And that's not good. I think it's really about being present. "

"It's really about taking it one race at a time. And accepting that it can be a rollercoaster sometimes. And it's not always smooth sailing, it's not always a straight line, I guess that's racing to an extent."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alonso-triple-headers-not-driving-will-drain-my-battery-in-f1/10558226/
DATE: 2023

Alonso walked away from F1 for two years at the end of 2018 after growing tired of media and commercial commitments while his  team fell into the bottom half of the standings.

In his time away, he twice won the Le Mans 24 Hours, chalked the 2018-19 World Endurance title and contested the Indianapolis 500 before returning to F1 with  in 2021.

Despite turning 42, a 2023 season at  returned him to the podium eight times to boost his motivation further.

He said: "To be competitive, to feel the speed again, and to arrive to the weekend again knowing that you need to do everything perfect because there is a podium possibility or a race win possibility, that really gives you a very different approach and a very different love for the things you do and dedications."

But the two-time champion concedes that F1's punishing schedule, rather than age decline, could be the factor that prompts him to quit again.

Alonso reckoned: "I said many times even before 2018, the day that I will stop racing is not because I feel not motivated for driving or I feel slow.

"If I feel slow one day, I think it will be noticeable and think I will not be happy with my performance and I will be the first one to raise my hand and say 'this is time [to stop]'.

"But, I don't think that time will arrive. Honestly, in terms of feeling slow, because I have extreme self-confidence in my performance, it could be that with the calendar and with the demanding schedule that one day I will feel it's time - because there are other things in life."

Photo by: Jake Grant /

Fernando Alonso, Aston Martin AMR23

The 2023 term dropped to 22 rounds after the return of the Chinese Grand Prix was postponed another year because of the pandemic, while an Imola event was cancelled by severe flooding.

It ended with an Austin-Brazil-Mexico triple-header followed by the Las Vegas GP running back-to-back with the Abu Dhabi finale.

For next year, the provisional calendar features a season-ending Vegas-Qatar-Abu Dhabi triple-header. This is under review amid pressure from teams and drivers, who argue the timetable is too gruelling as illness swept through the paddock in the Middle East.

Alonso believes it will be this running order that determines when his love for F1 runs out, rather than any performance drop-off.

He continued: "It's been a very demanding season with only 22 races, with two cancellations.

"Next year with the proper [24-round] calendar, we have to see how it feels.

"I saw that it's a triple-header. I don't know why, I thought that Vegas was alone next year… It's three races together. These kinds of things will drain my battery, not driving."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aston-martin-clawing-back-red-bull-drs-switch-gap-is-a-challenge/10557515/
DATE: 2023

Since the introduction of the current regulations in 2022 it has been apparent that the Milton Keynes team has gained more straightline speed than others with an open DRS.

Like all teams, Aston Martin has worked hard to catch up, with the latest iteration rear wing seen on the AMR23 at the Abu Dhabi GP last month.

"We noticed Red Bull were very strong at that last year, so they sort of took the march on that," said McCullough. "I remember Jeddah last year was the first time everyone was going, 'Wow, that's quite a big DRS switch.'

"The interaction between the whole back of the car, and the loading on the diffuser, the beam wing, the rear wing, the main plane, the flap, the brake ducts, the interaction of all that's obviously quite different to previous generation cars.

"And getting a stable aerodynamic platform that we don't have porpoising and all those other things that we don't want, getting lots of load, but getting it that when you open the DRS that you have as big as reach as possible is the aim.

"We didn't have a particularly strong one to start off with, and we were just systematically developing to increase that whilst trying to retain stability."

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Lance Stroll, Aston Martin AMR23, Sergio Perez, Red Bull Racing RB19

McCullough says it has not been easy to optimise the DRS switch given the compromises involved.

"So all those elements of the back of the car are linked," he said. "There's only so much you can do within the regulations. You're always trying to produce downforce and not have too much drag.

"But then on top of that, to get the DRS switch and get all those things working well, it is a challenge for the aerodynamic teams.

"And that's why you've seen quite a lot of development in that area, not only by ourselves, but by other people too."

Regarding the wing trialled in Abu Dhabi, he said: "For us, it was important to get it on the car the end of this year just to correlate what we see in the wind tunnel and CFD, and we did some cross-car, cross-session compares, and the wing is performing well."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alonso-aston-martin-deserved-f1-2023-win-more-than-anyone-else/10557178/
DATE: 2023

Alonso jumped ship from  to Aston Martin for 2023 and was rewarded for his bold move with a competitive car that yielded six podiums across the first eight races of the season.

He then added two more podium berths after the summer break to finish fourth in the drivers' championship, on equal points with Ferrari's .

His tally of eight podiums puts the Spaniard third behind runaway champion Verstappen and his Red Bull team-mate , and one top-three finish ahead of McLaren's , for total rostrum visits in 2023.

But despite only taking three second places compared to six for Norris, Alonso believes his team would have deserved a win the most after its progress compared to 2022.

His closest call came in Monaco, where only a superb final sector from Verstappen kept Alonso from pole, and therefore a golden chance to convert it into a win on the twisty street layout.

A disputed call during the grand prix to pit for mediums on a track that was getting wet then further robbed him of an opportunity to get ahead of the Dutchman.

"I think it was possible. Probably Monaco was the closest," Alonso said. "Just maybe a tyre call change or something [would've made the difference]. Maybe Zandvoort, if we were in a different position in that restart or something.

"We had opportunities here and there. And I believe that we deserved it more than anyone else this year."

Photo by: Steve Etherington /

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB19, Fernando Alonso, Aston Martin AMR23, Esteban Ocon, Alpine A523, Carlos Sainz, Ferrari SF-23, the rest of the field at the start

While  took over from Aston Martin as the season's surprise package after the summer break, Alonso still sees "only positives" from 2023 despite his team's puzzling lack of form towards the end of the year.

That loss of competitiveness dropped it to fifth behind the Woking squad, and according to Alonso showed the Silverstone team can't be called a top outfit just yet.

"I see only positives and those struggles I think are part of the job and part of the journey of this team," the 42-year-old explained. "We started really strong with the car that was surprisingly competitive, maybe even to us the step from last year to this year [was a surprise].

"And then we found ourselves maybe in a position that we were not ready for it. Fighting with , , top teams that they are used to fighting at that level. We maybe stepped back a little bit in terms of development on the car during the season.

"We are not at the top level yet and we found ourselves a little bit less competitive. But all in all it was unthinkable 12 months ago at this stage to think about the campaign we did.

"I remember perfectly the test last year after [Abu Dhabi] with the team and if someone had told me that we would be in this position, I would not have believed it."

Additional reporting by Alex Kalinauckas

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/hamilton-astons-rollercoaster-f1-season-highlights-risk-of-red-bull-copy/10555708/
DATE: 2023

The seven-time world champion’s  squad knew early on this season that its W14 car was not competitive, and it embarked on a concept overhaul that was in part ready for the Monaco Grand Prix.

But the team quickly concluded that even the steps it made this year were not enough, and it is working on a more major overhaul for its 2024 car.

Much of Mercedes’ efforts this season were spent in trying to get a better understanding of the development direction it needed so it could lock in the necessary improvements.

And while that meant there was a great deal of learning to be done during the campaign, Hamilton thinks it was a necessary price to pay rather than blindly copying Red Bull ideas.

He suggests the up and down form that Aston Martin endured throughout 2023, as it pursued a car very similar to Red Bull, highlighted the difficulties of making progress in F1.

Asked about if there was ever a time Mercedes considered throwing away its current design and starting from scratch with a Red Bull clone, Hamilton said: “The thing is, with the timeline you have, and the limited resources you have, you can’t just throw it away and start from scratch. You can’t copy a car and start from that.

“Look at the Astons. They tried to copy a car and it wasn’t the same. It is not as easy as that. You have to try and take the good parts and through trial and error just try to add other parts.

“But you can imagine they are also nervous of making too big a change and it being the wrong one.

“We need to be consistently week on week adding performance, and we have higher targets than ever before because we have a massive gap to catch. That makes it really tricky.”

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Fernando Alonso, Aston Martin AMR23, leads Sergio Perez, Red Bull Racing RB19

Hamilton’s strong form at the United States Grand Prix allowed him to shadow world champion  for much of the race – giving him the perfect opportunity to understand just how strong the Red Bull RB19 was.

“It does everything well,” he said about what he observed that day. “It looks very similar to my 2020 car, characteristic-wise. Super-stable.

“They are firing on all cylinders. It looks like it’s in that kind of window, like we used to have, which for a driver is a dream because then you can really extract your own personal abilities to the max.”

And it is that advantage which Hamilton believes allowed Verstappen to ‘chill’ at the front of F1 races throughout his dominant 2023 campaign.

“We were the closest in Austin but I think they still always had a tenth or two at the bare minimum on us,” he said.

“You can go through lap times and some of the data from Max, he is chilling at the front more often than not. I don’t think he has broken a sweat during the year.

“Even when we were chasing him in Austin, I don’t think he was sweating. I think he was just able to control it.

“When you are in that position, when you have performance and can back off, the car goes further. The tyres go longer and you are in a sweet spot and it’s amazing to be in that place.

“Ultimately, they have done an amazing job and deserve it. Whereas for us, we were chasing, chasing.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/fernando-alonso-best-f1-season-ferrari-title-miss/10555019/
DATE: 2023

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Fernando Alonso, Aston Martin AMR23

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alonso-explains-drs-ploy-behind-hamilton-brake-test-in-f1-abu-dhabi-gp/10552312/
DATE: 2023

The  driver secured fourth place in the drivers' championship with a seventh-place finish at the Yas Marina Circuit but was noted by the stewards for an incident following his second pitstop in the season finale.

As he rejoined the circuit, with Hamilton's  closing behind, Alonso moved to the right-hand side of the road on the approach to the Turn 5 left-hand hairpin, then appeared to lift off the throttle.

This caught Hamilton off-guard, with the seven-time world champion reporting to his team that Alonso had brake-tested him, however the stewards decided not to take any action after considering a charge of driving erratically.

Hamilton immediately passed Alonso using DRS, but the Spaniard retook the place and eventually finished two positions ahead of Hamilton after the Brit failed to make his final lap move on Yuki Tsunoda's  stick.

Speaking after the race, Alonso explained that he had slowed with the intention of allowing Hamilton through so he could instead gain DRS on the long drag towards Turn 6.

When asked for his response to Hamilton's brake test allegation, Alonso replied: "Lewis is obviously very clever and understands the sport really good and has a lot of experience but I have more."

Asked to clarify whether he was surprised by Hamilton's comment, Alonso added: "Yes and no.

"We did the same in Canada in 2012, so 11 years after that episode, we tried to give the DRS to the other guy, braking for Turn 5 but in both cases, I won so it is okay."

Alonso clarified that Aston Martin "need a lot more pace to overtake, we were a little bit slow on the straights", which he said had been "our weakness all throughout the season".

This was compounded by discovering that tyre wear was higher than expected.

"By lap 16 or something like that we made the first stop and we knew that the race was long from that point," Alonso said. "But at the end, the pace was only good for seventh or eighth.

"As I said yesterday the lap in qualifying was very good for the position, but the pace was a concern. That’s what we saw today.

"We were just enough to beat AlphaTauri but that is not enough."

also scored a point in 10th as Aston Martin concluded the season fifth in the constructors' table.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aston-martin-new-investment-doesnt-lawrence-stroll-exit/10550010/
DATE: 2023

The , which has interests in multiple MLB, NBA, NHL and MLS franchises, as well as European football teams, including Liverpool FC.

Inevitably, the move has prompted suggestions that Stroll might be planning to wind down his involvement in the team, and that there will be further sales of shares.

However, the Arctos deal is seen as a strategic one, with the new partners bringing fresh knowledge and contacts, much like ’s similar recent arrangement with US investors.

"Lawrence is all in, he's not going anywhere,” Slack told Motorsport.com. “It's not just the team, but he has this thing called Aston Martin Lagonda that's a pretty important part of his life too.

“So the team is the marketing platform for Aston Martin Lagonda. And of course, Lawrence is a very wealthy guy, it's not an issue of capital.

“The other thing about these guys, if you dive in a bit, they're never control guys, they never own and operate anything, only minority stakes. They are never going to be a control operator, they're never going to be the owner of this team.

“So that shows you if Lawrence was trying to sell to somebody who ultimately could take control, these will be the last guys you would sell to."

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Lance Stroll, Aston Martin AMR23, Fernando Alonso, Aston Martin AMR23, Carlos Sainz, Ferrari SF-23

Slack stressed that that Arctos is the ideal partner for the team.

"We met them two years ago,” he said. “They're really best in class. They've specialised in long-term minority stakes and top franchises. There are not many people that are doing that, although you’re getting a lot more money coming into sports, institutional capital. These guys have been the leaders in doing that.

“A lot of people have approached us and Lawrence to invest in the team. And we're in a very unique situation, we have one owner that controls the whole team, and can decide on lunch if it's the right deal. It's not a complicated process.

“And we didn't go through a really formal process, it was just these guys were clearly the right guys, mainly from a strategic standpoint.

“Obviously, there's investment, but what they bring to the party is working with some of the best franchises in the world.”

Expanding on what the team might gain from the deal, Slack said: "I think you have to be open-minded. Nobody does things perfectly or the best way. And you have to look outside of the bubble to say, how can we as a business do things better?

“It's not just on the commercial marketing side, it may be athlete preparation, they've invested in organisations that might be better at that.

"There's a whole gamut of things that we can learn from. And there might be things that those organisations learn from us, because we're a global business, whereas a lot of the franchises will be more local.”

Slack said the interest in teams from US investors is a positive sign for F1 as a whole, with values continuing to rise.

"There's been private equity transactions done already, several,” he noted. “This is the next step in that, again, good for our whole sport, it values the sport it says, 'hey, this is like buying an NBA team or an NFL team'.

"This is what you're getting when you get into F1. So I think that totally good for the business.

“The second is specific to our team. We've talked about the new campus, new wind tunnel, Honda engines, doubling the workforce.

“This is the next evolution, and this also gives us the right financial partner to do what we need, and invest how we need. Not that Lawrence couldn't do it, but now he has a true partner who does this for a living."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aston-martin-not-focused-on-mclaren-in-f1-abu-dhabi-finale/10549705/
DATE: 2023

Aston was in front of the Woking outfit for most of the season until  moved into fourth place in the constructors' world championship after the United States GP.

Following fifth place for  and eighth place after a first-lap spin for  in Las Vegas, Aston has narrowed the gap to 11 points, with just the season finale at Yas Island to come.

Asked if the team will focus its strategy on beating McLaren, Krack said it simply has to get the best results it can.

“For me, it doesn't change anything, compared to two or three races ago,” he said. “We can only influence what we do ourselves.

“The first bit is we have to have a fast car in Abu Dhabi, because we are behind. So it's something that we are not on the defence, we have to go flat out, and then we see. We have to do the best possible, and then we see what is the result.”

Krack downplayed the suggestion the team has now found its way again having seemingly been lost when it was experimenting with different aero packages.“We were not lost before,” he said. “I think it will be maybe arrogant to say we are on top of everything. I said it many times, the cars are very complex. I think there is a lot to learn still for us. So I will not say that we are on top of everything. But we have learned a lot this year.”

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

Lance Stroll, Aston Martin AMR23

Aston’s challenge for fourth place has been helped by Stroll’s strong recent form, the Canadian having secured fifth place at both Interlagos and Las Vegas.

He charged from a penalised 19th on the grid in the latter, after he avoided the first-corner chaos and gained 10 places on the first lap.

“It was a good race, but it was also a good race two weeks ago [in Brazil],” said Krack when asked by Motorsport.com about Stroll’s Las Vegas performance.

“I think the key today was to have a good understanding of the tyres, and the strategy. It was always the plan to do something like what we did there.

“There was a little bit of luck involved in the beginning to make a lot of positions. When you look at who had how many hards left and who didn't, with the exception of Esteban [Ocon], everybody who did not have two [sets] went out of the points.”

Krack said Stroll is regaining his confidence after a recent run of frustration that has seen him hampered by a series of technical problems and incidents.“What happens is he's beginning to get confidence, the results are coming, and then you get more confident,” said Krack. “He was out in Q2 yesterday [Saturday], but it was not a drama, because he builds this confidence. These are things that you cannot measure, really.

“It's nice to see that he managed the tyres really well today [Sunday], and then could pass some people. So, I think, all in all, when you put all this together, then the results come.”

Regarding Alonso’s first-lap incident he noted: “He just said he got surprised by the low grip, and turned around, but I don't know if it was oil related or dust.

“It was really, really tricky. I don't know what happened with Lando [Norris] later, but it seemed to me also like something. The tyre pressure was still low. Already the laps to the grid, for all the drivers were really, really difficult.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alonso-no-two-laps-of-vegas-f1-weekend-will-be-the-same/10546958/
DATE: 2023

F1's return to Vegas will take place on an all-new course that incorporates the city's famous Strip boulevard, with the public roads being used having been resurfaced ahead of the event.

Fresh asphalt laid at new races in recent years has tended to be very slippery for the cars, even with Pirelli bringing its softest tyres, as is the case for the Vegas weekend.

When asked by Motorsport.com to outline any particular areas of the 3.86-mile track where drivers could gain or lose time on what is a straight-heavy layout, Alonso instead highlighted the track evolution aspect as the area that could catch some competitors out.

He feels this could especially be the case due to the weekend lacking support races that would normally lay down additional rubber and therefore increase grip levels for the F1 machines.

"A street circuit, very low downforce – just getting that confidence into the car [will be important]," said Alonso. "The braking areas, I think that will be very important.

"With the conditions of the track and not having any support races, I think the amount of track evolution during the weekend is going to be bigger than normal.

"So, that will challenge everyone. I guess we will not have two laps the same over the weekend.

"Every lap of the track will be a little bit better than the lap before – from FP1 to the last lap of the race.

"We will have to adapt to that changeable grip. It's going to be a challenge for everyone."

Photo by: Sam Bagnall /

Fernando Alonso, Aston Martin F1 Team

Speaking alongside Alonso in the pre-event press conference,  driver  suggested one section of the new track that could catch out drivers would be the "very long combined braking [of] Turns 6-7".

He added: "That in the simulator was actually quite tricky to get right with the braking.

"Apart from that, obviously it's gonna be about the long straights, the big braking zones, being confident, getting close to the walls also on the exit of the corners.

"Looks like just getting confidence with a low-downforce car on such long straights with quite big braking is going to be the key."

Ahead of the event, there had been much speculation on whether potentially close to freezing temperatures could cause havoc with car and tyre performance.

This has since been scotched by the forecast for the weekend having conditions at 9-10°C during the night periods where the qualifying and race sessions will take place.

But those are still temperatures reminiscent of the 2020 Eifel GP at the Nurburgring, where the impact of the cold conditions was negated by that track's many turns.

Although he was at pains to point out that the F1 teams currently lack the data to be sure, Alonso therefore reckons squads that have struggled with too much tyre degradation in races due to their tyres overheating thanks to their aerodynamic designs could do well.

This would be thanks to their drivers being able to maintain the critical tyre temperature operating windows and with the Vegas track's layout allowing the rubber to cool – potentially making things harder for cars that face tyre warm-up issues.

"It could be that with these long straights, the tyres lose a little bit of temperature," said Alonso.

"We've been facing a little bit of tyre overheating on the last three events [in Texas, Mexico and Brazil] and maybe here it's a little bit the opposite.

"So maybe some cars that are struggling on long-run pace, here they are good because they can keep the tyres in the window and things like that.

"Tomorrow, we will have some answers."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-las-vegas-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp1/1123648/
DATE: 2024

And with that, it is time to head off for a break. We'll be back at 5:45am GMT ahead of FP2 but for now, here is the full session report from the first outing of the weekend. As ever, thanks for your company!

Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes F1 W15

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

It should be noted, even Hamilton's session best time was roughly three seconds off the pole lap of 12 months ago, highlighting the evolution that is yet to come in the following sessions.

By the time FP1 came to a close, both the air and track temperatures had dropped by three degrees. This fall is expected to continue into FP2, which takes place at a similar time to both qualifying and the race.

"That was the first session we've had since Toto Wolff's comments on Hamilton's "shelf-life" emerged - the Mercedes boss has since moved to explain what he meant - but for the seven-time world champion that was a response that will have had him smiling under his helmet, while his face flashed up the Vegas night as it shone from the Sphere"

"I know it was only first practice, but that was another unimpressive run for Sergio Perez. His best time is only good enough for 10th place on the time sheets. Time is running out for him to prove he deserves to retain his seat at Red Bull next year. The other aspect is that Red Bull need him to start delivering points if they are to claw back their way into contention to win the constructors' championship."

Completing practice starts on the grid, Verstappen has massively overshot the grid box. Were that to happen in the race, he would be in hot water for that one.

Hamilton's final lap was 0.396s up on Russell. He has 0.953s over Norris in third and all other drivers are over a second back.

And Hamilton moves to the top with a 1m35.001s. With no one else on a hot lap, he will exit the car as the fastest man in the session.

Hamilton is into the final sector of his final effort, as he goes purple in sector one.

The chequered flag flies and Sainz is the first driver to take it.

"So far, so good for the new FIA race director, Rui Marques. Not major incidents like we saw last year so he has been able to easy himself into the big seat left vacant by Niels Wittich, who left the role after the Sao Paulo Grand Prix. We have Toto Wolff in the press conference later, so it will be good to get his thoughts on the shock departure and what he makes of Marques."

Hamilton goes top, but Russell is faster still with a third consecutive flying lap, moving to a 1m35.397s.

And we're about to see what Hamilton can do with soft, as he begins his first timed effort on the compound.

As the click ticks below five minutes, Russell returns Mercedes to the top with a 1m35.619s.

"It is another cold one in Vegas tonight, as soon as the sun disappears the temperature really does drop. While the FP1 action might not set pulses racing, race organisers will be happy to come through unscathed after last year. The fans who have come out for the first running are also making the most of it...maybe just to warm up!"

We're seeing a decent number of drivers in the pits now, we're probably going to see some warm tyres bolted on for a round of closing flying laps to end the session.

Hamilton is the only driver not to have tried soft tyres yet in this session.

10 minutes remain in FP1.

Up from 14th to sixth for Verstappen, but he remains 0.807s off the pace of Norris.

Verstappen reports a "connection issue" with his steering wheel, complaining that the radio "went on by itself". A peculiar problem, for sure.

McLaren has shown its hand for the first time this weekend, with Norris the first driver below 96s, putting in a 1m35.954s, as team-mate Piastri improves to fourth, sandwiching the Ferrari drivers.

Hamilton and Russell are out again but on medium tyres.

But he's immediately forced back by Ferrari team-mate Sainz who hammers in a 1m36.218s.

The first change at the top for a while, as Leclerc now puts in a 1m36.430s to better Hamilton by 0.497s.

And we've had confirmation of a five-place grid penalty for Bottas, after the Sauber driver has had a fourth energy store fitted to his car.

Yellow flags were briefly displayed again there - no explanation why quite yet.

On softs, Leclerc puts in a purple middle and personal bests in the other two sectors to move up to second, behind only Hamilton.

Magnussen is on it once again, moving up to third for Haas. This is the freedom of a driver knowing they aren't driving for their future.

"We have a voice but we don't have a vote," McLaren Racing CEO tells Sky Sports on the changing of the F1 race director. He hopes the move is a "step forward".

On the plus side, no drain issues to this point!

From 10th to third for Norris. The times have largely stabilised for the moment, but with another round of fresh rubber, the picture could all change very quickly.

Highlighting the pit entry issue, Albon has now been shown the same black and white flag as his Williams team-mate for crossing the white line.

"The pit entry line is almost impossible to see," reports Russell. With all the lines of the road, it is hugely difficult to pick out.

As per Chandhok's suggestion, a thick yellow line would clear up any confusion there.

An odd problem for Piastri here, as his McLaren refuses to switch off as his mechanics push the car back into the garage. It's eventually fixed, but as per the roll hoop lights, it was an electrical issue.

Currently, Mercedes enjoy a 1-2 led by Hamilton, with Leclerc leading a Ferrari 3-4. Championship players Norris and Verstappen are 10th and 9th respectively.

While the track is never going to fall completely silent during a session this weekend, half the grid have returned to the pits, resulting in a quieter track.

The first black and white flag of the weekend goes to Colapinto. Currently in 18th, he failed to follow the race director's event notes and crossed the white line on pit entry.

Proving how difficult the conditions are, Verstappen runs deep at the end of The Strip following a heavy lock up - his Red Bull screaming as it slid past the cameras.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-race-1123853/1123854/
DATE: 2024

and  will launch from the front row of the grid in Abu Dhabi as  looks to seal a first constructors' title since 1998.

, who secured McLaren's latest crown of any description with his maiden 2008 drivers' title, makes his final bow for  before his switch to , while , , ,  and  all start in F1 for potentially the last time.

The race gets under way at 13:00 GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-bahrain-pre-season-test-day-1-1121307/1121308/
DATE: 2024

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB20

Photo by: Steven Tee / Motorsport Images

Mercedes F1 W15 last flap

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

C3? We can see a few more than that! Mercedes opted for 25 sets of the medium tyre compound for the Bahrain test, more than any other team, having decided to take only two sets each of the C1 and C2. As the Bahrain track surface is so rough, the C3 will serve as next weekend's softest compound - so the team has already got an eye on the season opener.

Photo by: Jake Boxall-Legge

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Spot the inlets either side of the top of Verstappen's helmet. Red Bull's design department certainly wasn't relaxing over the winter.

Red Bull Racing RB20 detail

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-qatar-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1123762/
DATE: 2024

After handing victory in the Formula 1 Qatar Grand Prix sprint race to  team-mate  on the final lap,  has another shot at glory in qualifying.

Having repaid Piastri for his own sacrificial gesture in the Brazilian GP sprint, Norris will aim to underline his position as the faster of the papaya drivers by emulating the pace that enabled him to pip  to top spot in sprint qualifying on Friday.

But with Russell keen to strike back at McLaren after being frustrated by Piastri's defence in the sprint, the Las Vegas winner cannot be ruled out of the conversation for the penultimate pole position of the year.

Qualifying gets under way in Losail at 18:00 GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-las-vegas-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp3/1123670/
DATE: 2024

With that, we'll take a breather for a coffee break before firing up all over again for qualifying which starts at 6am GMT. Until then, go well!

George Russell, Mercedes F1 W15

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

What did we learn from that session ahead of qualifying? Well, Mercedes still appears strong and the track conditions will ramp up with every lap, so it could be a case of the last to set a lap time may triumph.

Oscar Piastri, McLaren MCL38

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar / Motorsport Images

So, a flurry of very late action to round out FP3 topped by Russell from Piastri, Sainz, Norris, Verstappen and Hamilton.

Anyway, the other 18 drivers minus Perez and Stroll do get to enjoy an out-lap, lap to the grid for a practice start and then an in-lap. Not much to learn, but it still sees the RBs almost collide as Tsunoda gets his braking wrong and nearly goes into the rear of Lawson.

Perez misses the opportunity to get out on track at the back of the car train, so he has to park at the end of the pitlane facing the red light. He's the only one to miss out and it was an odd one given he left a big gap to Russell ahead. He could've made it.

Stroll has come to a stop just outside the Venetian, as the car's red lights turn off so the marshals can recover the Aston Martin. The session will resume - for exactly 60 seconds to be precise.

Stroll's car totally switched off before he came to a halt and the red lights are flashing on his Aston Martin to indicate it isn't safe to touch yet. That could mean the session is effectively over with three minutes to go.

Not for long though, as a red flag is shown with Stroll parked at the side of the track with his Aston Martin smoking.

But just like that Verstappen is suddenly shuffled down to fifth as Russell goes fastest from Piastri, Sainz and Norris. The lap times keep on coming.

"The grip felt miles better," Verstappen reports on team radio. It certainly seems Red Bull has dialled in that car over the last hour.

Verstappen goes fastest of anyone with a 1m34.137s - 0.081s up on Russell. Problems, what problems?

Perez only manages 11th and 1.4s off the outright pace. Where does Verstappen stack up?

Verstappen has bailed out of his first push lap on the softs as Perez carries on. At the front, Russell takes over top spot again with a 1m34.218s.

Aaaaand there they are. Right on cue, Verstappen and Perez come out in formation and both on fresh soft tyres. Let's see what they've got ahead of qualifying.

There are 15 minutes left in FP3 but still no sign of the Red Bull drivers who haven't ventured out on the soft tyres yet.

After seeing so many empty seats for practice two, it is encouraging to see more spectators here for FP3. After asking around, it seems the locals are not bothered about practice, unlike some of the more-established markets. Organisers say they expect a full house on Saturday, so that's where their focus is. It does make it valid to suggest that perhaps, in order to increase ticket sales, Vegas should be selected as a location for the sprint races. At least it would get the punters in.

Russell briefly takes top spot only for his team-mate Hamilton to reply with a 1m34.341s - once again it is looking promising for Mercedes in these cold and slippery conditions. Can it last until the sessions that really matter?

A switch to Hamilton's onboard camera shows he is pushing on the softs, as he goes fastest overall with a 1m34.565s.

Plenty of lap time improvements elsewhere, as Magnussen goes fastest with a 1m34.883s for Haas.

"This is... I can't drive it. I'm gonna crash. My left front is completely f******," Verstappen says, stating his case to pit. Red Bull duly obliges and calls in its driver.

"It's only getting worse. The car is undriveable," Verstappen reports on team radio. "Just a couple more laps please Max. Have to try and make the best of this," Lambiase replies to his driver. That came after a lock-up at Turn 5.

All 20 drivers are on track so suddenly there is a fair bit of traffic to navigate. Hamilton gets caught behind Alonso and then Tsunoda to restrict his opening time lap to 1m36.590s.

Norris and then Piastri take over at the top, the Australian posting a 1m35.759s for top spot in the McLaren 1-2.

Tsunoda blows that theory away with a 1m37.517s to go three seconds quicker than Verstappen. A high number of drivers are on out-laps now so this track will ramp up rapidly over the final 34 minutes.

Norris posts a 1m41.653s to slot into third behind both Red Bulls. Another warm-up lap or is the track really this much slower? Verstappen improves to go top but only with a 1m40.588s.

Norris has come out to be our yardstick, running on the soft tyres, as Perez and Verstappen both improve by a handful of tenths on their next laps.

Verstappen's opening effort is a leisurely 1m42.180s on the medium tyres. It seems hard to believe track conditions mean nine seconds slower than FP2, but let's see what others can produce before drawing conclusions.

Verstappen has had enough of the hanging around in the pits and nips out for the first time in the session, joined by team-mate Perez. Given all the trouble-free running yesterday - just the one short red flag caused by Albon stoppage in FP2 - it perhaps isn't surprising there isn't much track action early in FP3.

The hard tyre scrubbing continues for a handful of drivers, meaning it is just Tsunoda on track at present. And still just the one lap time overall which came from Perez earlier.

It may only be a practice session but Red Bull and Max Verstappen, in particular, will be keen to show improvement on their performance yesterday. We know the wing is an issue but with everything else now turned up to qualifying spec, let’s see where they actually sit in terms of pace.

Lawson, who has also joined the fun scrubbing in his hard tyres, says it is very slippery on track. The circuit reopened for public traffic between FP2 and this session, so it will be a case of rebuilding the grip levels and cleaning the racing line.

"Ah. Miles off," Perez says over team radio after his first timed lap of 1m41.941s. Given FP2's top times were in the 1m33s, he's made an accurate summation.

Both Aston Martins are also in action early while the rest stay comfortable and warm in the garages. Handy, as it is 14.9C air temperature and given the timing of the sessions that is the warmest it'll be all night.

Zhou nips out for an early exploration of the Las Vegas Strip, taking in the sights during his installation lap. He's joined by Perez and Hamilton, with the Red Bull driver sporting a visibly trimmed rear wing - it looks like someone's taken a bite out of it.

Off we go for final practice!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

While at Red Bull there is concern over its rear wing being unsuited to the demands of the Las Vegas track ,but that they are stuck with it for the weekend. .

Norris took second in FP2, just 0.011s off Hamilton, but . However, digging a little deeper, those concerns aren't strictly showing in the data - .

Lando Norris, McLaren MCL38

Photo by: Zak Mauger / Motorsport Images

The nightmare of manhole covers coming loose and delayed running were a distant memory, as the opening day of track action was a relatively straightforward and low key affair. Hamilton topped both FP1 and FP2 with Mercedes starting strongly in Vegas with Russell second in FP1 and third in FP2 too - .
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alonso-takes-aim-at-f1-broadcast-over-grumpy-guy-portrayal-they-will-not-succeed/10680370/
DATE: 2024

has taken aim at Formula One Management [FOM] for portraying him as a "grumpy guy" after a team radio rant over the performance of his Aston Martin during Friday's practice for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix was broadcast.

The two-time Formula 1 world champion has a long list of famous team radio messages where he has voiced his displeasure, most notably when with  during the ill-fated Honda years last decade.

Frustration has been rising given Aston Martin's struggles in breaking into the top 10 this season, especially given its strong start to last year's campaign, with Alonso telling his team: "Worst car ever, and worst traffic preparation ever. Next time I will do the out-lap myself."

Despite his lack of pleasure with the AMR24, the Spaniard took eighth on the grid with a solid qualifying performance at the Yas Marina Circuit, giving Alonso and the Silverstone-based outfit the chance to finish the year on a high.

Asked how he pulled off his qualifying performance after his frustration in practice, Alonso replied: "But today I said that I had a good feeling. So yeah, I mean, we started on the wrong foot, for sure, the car was very disconnected front and rear. They were not talking to each other.

"We made some set-up changes overnight. We didn't succeed in improving the performance, because FP3, we were 17th and 19th. So still not there. So we made further changes before qualifying, and it seems that we found the window where the car is happier.

"So yeah, these cars are so critical, the operating window is so narrow that it is not easy to find it. It seems that we did it before quali. Happy to start eighth, but it's going to be a tough race tomorrow."

Fernando Alonso, Aston Martin AMR24

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar / Motorsport Images

On whether the struggles in practice marked the lowest point of the season, Alonso levelled criticism at FOM for its broadcast decisions.

"It was a bad traffic. It was a frustration building. But yeah, as usual, you know, some comments are good, some comments are bad, but FOM has this fix with me, with bad comments – but I'm happy with that. It's their job.

"Yesterday I had some positive things [to say] as well but as I said, FOM, they have to sell that I'm the grumpy guy. They tried for many years and they will not succeed.

"I didn't have a good time [in practice] but I think all these conversations are very private with your engineer. You are trying sometimes different things. You speak about some out-lap preparations that maybe I don't agree with the engineers.

"They want to try anyway, it doesn't work. So you tell them, 'Wow, you know this – we knew it beforehand', or something like that.

"But when you don't have all that context behind and you just put the radio message, it's just wrong. But it is the way they do it."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1123842/
DATE: 2024

The F1 season reaches a climax in Abu Dhabi with  and  set to battle it out for glory on the constructors' championship.

Off-track, a war of words between  and  has stolen the spotlight from drivers, including , who are either racing with teams for the last time or are making potentially their final appearance in the category.

topped first practice but picked up a 10-place grid penalty for a battery change, as  headed a McLaren 1-2 in FP2 and  repeated the McLaren dominance in FP3.

Qualifying starts at 2:00pm GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp3/1123837/
DATE: 2024

The F1 season reaches a climax in Abu Dhabi with  and  set to battle it out for glory on the constructors' championship.

Off-track, a war of words between  and  has stolen the spotlight from drivers, including , who are either racing with teams for the last time or are making potentially their final appearance in the category.

topped first practice but picked up a 10-place grid penalty for a battery change, as  headed a McLaren 1-2 in FP2.

Final practice gets under way at 10:30am GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/video/mclaren-in-control-so-far-plus-horner-v-wolff-abu-dhabi-gp-friday-update/657399/?filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Formula+1+2024&filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4660&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Aston+Martin+Racing&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=97
DATE: 2024

Alex Kalinauckas and Ben Hunt continue their coverage of the Abu Dhabi GP as they review both Friday practise sessions. Together, they discuss Christian Horner attempting to smooth over the war of words between Max Verstappen and George Russell, despite being called a "yapping terrier" by Mercedes counter part Toto Wolff. There's also a discussion on why it's advantage McLaren in the Constructors Championship fight as Alex reviews the long-run averages, Charles Leclerc's 10-place grid penalty after a battery issue was found in his Ferrari, and the latest on Sergio Perez's future as F2 title contender Isack Hadjar shared the Red Bull garage during FP1.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-hits-oxford-street-as-aston-martin-and-puma-invite-fans-to-celebrate-the-team-behind-the-team/10784084/
DATE: 2025

Aston Martin’s Formula 1 car will be a centrepiece in the launch of a new collection at PUMA’s brand-new Oxford Street store today (11 December). The collection is inspired by the innovation, craftsmanship and expertise of the team behind the team, and will give fans the chance to say goodbye to the old F1 era and look ahead to a game-changing season in 2026.

Aston Martin and PUMA joined forces at the start of this year and the team sent off 2025 in style with a double points-scoring performance last weekend in Abu Dhabi, where former world champion  claimed sixth and team-mate  finished tenth

The team is now developing its first machine for F1’s new era – which will be penned by incoming design legend Adrian Newey – and the new PUMA collection looks ahead to that, taking design inspiration from the unsung engineering heroes who sit beneath his wing.

“This Collection marks a celebration of the evolving partnership between PUMA and the Aston Martin Aramco Formula 1 Team — a collaboration built on shared values of innovation, craftsmanship, and contemporary design,” said PUMA.

“The collection embodies this spirit, blending PUMA’s expertise in performance apparel with Aston Martin Aramco's refined aesthetic to create pieces that resonate with fans both on and off the track.”

The performance-driven sportswear is designed for movement, comfort and style, and each individual piece has been innovatively engineered with technical fabrics, precise cuts and performance-focused details.

PUMA says the collection has been developed to celebrate the people behind the scenes, noting standout items as the Gear Jacket and Pants, a Full-Zip Hoodie and the legendary PUMA Speedcats — a footwear icon reimagined for fans and streetwear enthusiasts.

As the Christmas season accelerates, fortunate F1 fans will have the chance to slow down and gain some respite from the hectic shopping streets, exploring the car – and the new collection – up close just days after the season came to a close.

The event is open for all fans to attend and take part in the experience, with a live DJ performing throughout the day and a range of special F1-related activities available for visitors to participate in.

The PUMA x Aston Martin Aramco Formula One Team Select Collection is available at select PUMA stores as well as online at puma.com.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ralf-schumacher-calls-for-lance-stroll-f1-exit-no-longer-acceptable/10784077/
DATE: 2025

Former Formula 1 driver and Sky Germany analyst Ralf Schumacher has argued that now is the time for  to leave the championship.

Stroll joined the Aston Martin F1 team when it was under the Racing Point branding in 2019 after his father, Lawrence Stroll, led a consortium of investors to purchase the squad.

Schumacher claimed that Stroll "shouldn't really be in Formula 1 anymore" and that young drivers, such as 2025 Formula 2 champion Leonardo Fornaroli, deserve a seat in the series.

The Canadian driver has been outperformed by his current team-mate  since the two-time champion joined the Silverstone outfit in 2023. Their first year as team-mates saw Alonso finish fourth in the drivers' standings with 206 points, and Stroll finished 10th with 74 points. Alonso finished ninth in 2024 with 70 points with Stroll in 13th with 24 points, and 2025 resulted in a 10th and 16th-place finishes for the duo.

"Strictly speaking, that's no longer acceptable. Honestly, when I see how well the Formula 2 winner [Fornaroli] has done, he deserves to be in a car like that a thousand times more," Schumacher said during the Sky Sports Germany podcast.

"But I'm also curious to see what happens there, because, to be honest, even Lawrence Stroll [...] can't turn a blind eye to this issue. In my opinion, he's also a candidate who shouldn't really be in Formula 1 anymore. Definitely."

Lance Stroll, Aston Martin Racing

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

The Aston Martin F1 team has seen a lot of change in recent years.  retired at the end of 2022, leading the Silverstone outfit to sign Alonso to drive alongside Stroll. Construction of a new state-of-the-art 400,000 sq ft factory began in 2021.

In addition, former Red Bull technical director Adrian Newey joined Aston Martin in 2025 as managing technical partner and will assume the role of team principal in 2026.

2026 will also welcome Honda to the team as its power unit supplier after the Japanese outfit parted ways with .

Currently, Stroll is contracted to  Aston Martin until the end of 2026.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/who-is-driving-at-the-2025-f1-abu-dhabi-post-season-test/10783370/
DATE: 2025

The 2025 Formula 1 competitive season may be over, but track activity is not: all 20 cars will be in action in  on Tuesday.

Each team will have one mule car driven by one or both race drivers, featuring Pirelli’s new range of rubber for the 2026 season, with slightly smaller and narrower tyres.

Even the tyres’ construction will be significantly different due to F1’s new technical regulations. When Pirelli asked all F1 teams to submit their predicted downforce levels for the end of 2026, there was much disparity between their simulations.

“It was more difficult for teams to estimate the performance of their 2026 cars at the end of the season,” Pirelli’s Mario Isola explained. “But we needed those simulations because we needed to design a product that is lasting for one year. If they just give us an idea of the car performance at the start of the season, and if we don't know what the rate of development will be, then it's difficult for us.”

Pirelli has therefore developed a broad spectrum of compounds, in case the real-world downforce levels turn out to be higher or lower than predicted by the teams.

The mule cars are 2025-spec machinery that has been modified to drop down closer to next year’s much lower downforce levels, though it cannot be fully accurate, partly because the 2026 cars will feature active aerodynamics.

“We have discussed some limitations with the teams, based on those first tests,” Isola added. “For example, we decided to avoid overloading the tyres on the straights. We were testing with a speed limit at 290km/h or 300km/h, because clearly they will have a lot less downforce on the straights next year. So we agreed on some methodologies for testing with the teams. Thanks to these methodologies it was possible to have feedback from the mule cars that was a little bit more coherent, more close.”

Valtteri Bottas, Mercedes, Mexico Pirelli Test

The test won’t change the 2026 compounds in any case, as the tyres have already been homologated for next season; it will simply help Pirelli choose the compounds for next year.

The Italian manufacturer has brought all compounds to Yas Marina Circuit except for the hardest dry-weather tyre, the C1, and the full-wet.

Meanwhile, the other 10 cars will be driven by rookies as part of the traditional end-of-season young drivers’ test. Only competitors with two grand prix starts or fewer are allowed to take part.

A number of 2025 race drivers will be skipping Tuesday's test.

This includes outgoing Red Bull racer  as well as his team-mate  and Mercedes' , with those teams giving all the track time to youngsters  and  respectively. Verstappen said he was “very happy” to miss out.

will field only , with  missing out.

will be the only test driver handling a mule car, with neither  nor  in action for Aston Martin – which is no surprise as far as the Spanish veteran is concerned, as he was looking forward to not driving the AMR25 any longer.

Ryo Hirakawa, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Many teams will field the same rookie as they did in Free Practice 1.

F2 frontrunners Dino Beganovic, Luke Browning and Jak Crawford will drive for the ,  and Aston Martin squads they are linked to.

Another F2 driver will be in action with his parent outfit,  at Alpine; the Enstone-based outfit will again loan out  to .

Now racing in IMSA with Cadillac,  reserve driver  will drive the Silver Arrow, while Toyota WEC driver and Haas reserve driver  will drive the VF-25.

Red Bull will entrust its protege  with the RB21 after the Japanese racer won the Super Formula championship. 2025 IndyCar runner-up and long-time  driver  will handle the title-winning F1 car.

Most importantly,  will gain important experience ahead of his graduation to Formula 1 with  in 2026.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-race-1126198/1126199/
DATE: 2025

I think that's a good place to leave it. Make sure to keep an eye out for our other post-race reaction, but let's give you one more Lando pic because this is his moment.

And who knows if he'll go back-to-back, because everything promises to look a lot different in the new era.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Michael Potts / LAT Images via Getty Images

Norris added on Sky: "I have to give it to Oscar, he's driven incredible. At some point he's going to get the better of me."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

More from an emotional Norris on Sky: "It's pretty cool. It's pretty insane. It's hard for me just to say it. I feel like I don't want to say it just yet, I'll wake up tomorrow and say it. It's been a season of ups and downs - has it been a perfect season? Absolutely not. Has it been by anybody? No.

"I'm happy I cried. Not many things in my life have made me cry, but today was one."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Rose / Formula 1 via Getty Images

It was all tears in parc ferme.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Andrea Stella, McLaren

Photo by: Bryn Lennon / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Sky now showing a montage of Norris' career up to now. It's mad where the time has gone!

World champion at the age of 26 in his seventh season of F1.

This is a very sweet interview with Lando's mum on Sky. Speaks of watching her grandchild in the Nativity play on Tuesday before flying to Abu Dhabi on Thursday. Mentions of Lando being in the garden driving the tractor as a kid, before Hamilton is caught in the media pen congratulating Norris.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Rudy Carezzevoli / Getty Images

Lando's mum on Sky Sports: "Emotionally drained, but very happy."

He'll be looking at a much bigger trophy soon...

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Rose / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

The Stella-Brown bromance!

Andrea Stella, McLaren, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Carlos Sainz: "Very happy for him. I think he's a great F1 driver. I think unbelievably fast.

"But with his particular way of going about life and things, as much as he's got criticised a lot during the last few years for being how he is, he's world champion and everyone can keep dreaming about being F1 world champion while he goes about his own way and does things his own way.

"So I'm extremely happy for him because he must have felt a lot of pressure over the last few weekends and he managed to pull it off."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

It's times like this where pictures speak a thousand words

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Brown going over to man he once compared to a villain from a horror film...

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando and his bosses.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Andrea Stella, McLaren, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Zak Brown: "If you beat Max and Red Bull, you've done a great job."

He then adds that Piastri is a "future world champion".

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Let's hear more from Lando.

"It's incredible. Pretty surreal. I dreamed of this for a long, long time - everyone does - a lot goes into a season like this. A lot of ups, a lot of downs, but none of that matters if you try to come out on top. The last seven, eight years I've been with McLaren, the last 17, 18 years of my life I've been chasing this dream.

"My best performances this year came when I needed them the most."

The moment Lando crossed the line to become champion.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

But queue the champagne, as Norris does his trademark celebration as a world champion for the first time!

Piastri lifts the runner-up trophy on the podium. It does look like he's trying to put on a brave face - a penny for his thoughts etc.

PR email of the day, dropped almost the second the grand prix finished. A street in Somerset, Lando's home county, will be named in his honour. It's almost like they had that planned and ready to go!

Lifts his head up to the sky as a Formula 1 world champion...

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Here comes the podium as world champion Lando Norris is first to greet the steps!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

The second Autosport young driver winner to win the F1 world championship after Jenson Button...

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Norris: "I've not cried in a while. DIdn't think I'd cry but I did. It's a long journey, a long journey."

Speaking of the championship, here is how the top three finishes:

1. Lando Norris - 423 points

2. Max Verstappen - 421 points

3. Oscar Piastri - 410 points

It's hugmania on that pit straight. Zak, Sainz, Russell, mechanics, family, all wanting a bit of Lando.

But the cameras did catch a nice moment when Norris' mum headed over to Piastri to console the other McLaren driver, who finishes this year third in the championship.

As is customary in Abu Dhabi, Norris is now doing doughnuts down the start-finish straight...

Verstappen: "I'm definitely not disappointed. I'm proud of everyone, we never give up."

A tearful Norris: "I love you guys, thanks for everything - you deserve it. I love you mum, I love you dad."

Camera pans straight to the McLaren garage, where Lando's mum is crying. These moments are the ones to savour...

LANDO NORRIS IS THE 2025 FORMULA 1 WORLD CHAMPION
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/fernando-alonso-targets-clean-abu-dhabi-gp-dont-want-to-be-in-the-news-on-monday/10782887/
DATE: 2025

Fernando Alonso will line up sixth on the grid for the 2025 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, so the wide smile that spread across his face as he talked to the media came as no surprise. While his expectations aren't too high, he's looking forward to enjoying the show from behind the wheel while keeping out of trouble.

After a challenging start to the weekend, the Spaniard's qualifying pace came as a surprise.

“Yeah, I'm very, very happy. A little bit unexpected, to be honest, P6,” Alonso said after qualifying. “We had some concerns about this layout, you know, all the low speed has been our weakness the whole season.

"We came here not very confident about the performance in Abu Dhabi. Yesterday the car felt not great, to be honest, a lot of understeer, a lot of problems in the slow speed corners. We changed the set-up overnight.

"We've been brave with some of the experiments that we tried overnight and this morning the car felt good. So, we kept that set-up for quali and honestly, the car was more competitive than expected. So, I'm happy for the team.”

This overnight gamble not only transformed the two-time champion's qualifying pace but should also make Sunday's grand prix more manageable.

"With yesterday's car, we could not turn into the corners. So, now we can turn the corners. So, it will help not to crash,” he grinned.

While fans of the championship will be focusing on the fight between Max Verstappen, Lando Norris and Oscar Piastri, Alonso admitted he hadn't thought about the strategy that could be in play between them - something that could include the Dutchman backing up the front of the pack.

Fernando Alonso, Aston Martin Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

“I didn't thought about that!" he laughed. "Yeah, who knows? That's interesting. I mean, I didn't thought about that. Now, I have something to work tonight,” he said. “Sometimes even if he slows down, it's still not enough for us to catch him.

"So, he needs to slow down a lot. But, yeah, we will try to do our race and if the strategy is open for more different things, we will try to react. You know, obviously, our race is with Haas and Sauber for the constructors' championship.

"There is no other incentive for us tomorrow and we will try to control that.”

What he will be doing is keeping an eye on the fight from the screens dotted around the circuit.

"It's a very easy circuit," he smiled. "Turn 3, you have a screen that is in the middle of your view. Turn 5, you have a screen on the inside. Turn 7, on the outside. Turn 9, there are two. One on entry, one on exit. So, plenty of screens!" he laughed. "I mean, tomorrow is going to be a fantastic show for us.”

As he watches the drama, he hopes he won't become part of it.

"I hope to be as far as possible from the fight. Well, not too far because I want to win the points. But, yeah, not in the news on Monday.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1126190/
DATE: 2025

That's us for now! We shall be back for race day when a world champion will be crowned...

Piastri: "The last lap in Q3 was pretty good, there's wasn't a lot left in that. Max has looked very quick in the long runs, let's see how much pace is a factor tomorrow."

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

Norris: "Max did a good job, so congrats to him. We did everything we could, my lap was pretty good so I'm happy. We just weren't fast enough today."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

Verstappen: "Of course incredibly happy to be in first, that's the only thing we can do."

Should he win tomorrow then he will match Hamilton's record of five Abu Dhabi GP victories.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

That also means Verstappen finishes the year with the most poles of any driver:

Verstappen - 8Norris - 7Piastri - 6Russell - 2Leclerc - 1

Max Verstappen is on pole for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, beating runner-up Lando Norris by 0.201s - sublime pace from the Red Bull driver, who even improved on his second lap without a tow.

Oscar Piastri is third but, I'm sure to Max's dismay, George Russell is only fourth. As it stands, Norris is world champion.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Two sectors down and neither McLaren driver is faster than Max...

Looks like there won't be any tow with Max going out before Tsunoda. Russell is eyeing one up from the world champion though and maybe Max will willingly give him one if it means getting the Mercedes man above Norris...

So it's Verstappen on provisional pole while team-mate Tsunoda is 10th. One does wonder what Red Bull does with Yuki in these final runs. Is it worth making him do a proper lap, or just give Max another tow?

Piastri splits the pair but Russell only manages fifth. Good job by Verstappen, but he needs more help from his rivals to push Norris down.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

It allows the four-time champion to set a 1m22.295s and it is four tenths quicker than Norris. Wow!

Though it must be said Lando was on used softs with Verstappen on fresh.

Tsunoda gives Verstappen a tow in sector two. Think that was planned don't you?

Here we are, the final quali session of the year and it's actually looking too close to call right now!

Antonelli had complaints about the rear but everything was clearly fine for team-mate Russell, who topped the session.

Verstappen was just 0.022s behind with Norris 0.074s off top!

George Russell, Mercedes

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

But that is Q2 now done and the bottom five is as follows:

Piastri was quickest in Q1 but he's survived a Q2 scare finishing just eighth and less than a tenth above the drop zone!

Quite a busy end to the session this and looks like Leclerc has now removed himself from danger, climbing up to a provisional fifth from 10th.

Well that's a busy pitlane! Everybody queuing up to get a final lap completed in these last four minutes.

Mercedes is looking good, but don't think Red Bull can rely on Ferrari to get in front of McLaren with Hamilton out in Q1 and Leclerc only 10th. The Scuderia didn't have a great FP3 either and Charles said the only positive of Friday was sharing the track with his brother Arthur.

Norris is loving that final sector because quite a few times now it's turned a good lap into a very good one. He's currently third and 0.074s off top with the fastest sector three time.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Not sure that's the record Hamilton had in mind when he joined Ferrari!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Hulkenberg's Q1 exit means him and team-mate Bortoleto will finish the year 15-15 for qualifying sessions in 2025. This is 12-12 without sprint weekends.

Absolute level pecking.

He's a lonely man out there as Verstappen is the only driver on track. Come on everyone, it's already started...

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

Quick turnaround: we're back for Q2 and Verstappen is first out.

But that's that for Q1 with Hamilton, Albon, Hulkenberg, Gasly and Colapinto all being eliminated.

Celebrations for Piastri though, as he was close to three tenths quickest with Verstappen second and Antonelli in third. Norris sixth.

"Every time mate, I'm so sorry," was Hamilton's reaction.

But here is a shock, well it would have been a year ago, as Lewis Hamilton suffers a Q1 exit for the third consecutive race.

The winter break cannot come quick enough for the seven-time champion...

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

Colapinto also puts in a lap not good enough so it's a double Alpine Q1 elimination - pretend to be shocked!

Speaking of the bottom five, Gasly improves but not by much so he is out.

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / LAT Images via Getty Images

Wasn't the best lap for Lando though, as the championship leader has since dropped to fifth. But quite frankly, who cares? It's only Q1 and what matters is the bottom five.

Whether it was or not is another matter, but it's done the trick as McLaren goes 1-2. Big advantage to Piastri as well!

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Rudy Carezzevoli / Getty Images

New softs for both McLaren cars - was that really needed?

Just five minutes remain in Q1 and cars are coming back out for their final runs. It's certainly a close grid with the top 18 within eight tenths of each other.

Well, Bearman's Haas is looking good because Ocon is currently in the dropzone.

Albon, Leclerc, Gasly and Colapinto are the others in the bottom five with Leclerc and Gasly having used the mediums. Seems a bit of a strange choice that one.

We mentioned earlier that Hamilton also started on the mediums, but he's since switched to softs and is fifth.

Go on Bearman! That Haas is looking good today with the rookie currently second in Q1 after finishing seventh, one spot behind team-mate Ocon, in FP3.

Oliver Bearman, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

More lap times are coming in now and Verstappen goes fastest with a 1m23.325s. It was only yesterday that he complained of struggles with his pace.

Back to the action, interesting choice of tyre for Hamilton and Gasly as both are on mediums with the rest on softs. Looks like they're hoping to save a fresh set of the red-stripped rubber.

So the pole position award will be presented by Benson Boone. Right, time for Google to come in handy...

Never fear Hamilton fans, as he's out on track for Q1 with his car having recovered from his FP3 crash.

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari crash

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp3-1126182/1126183/
DATE: 2025

And that's all from us for now! We'll be back a little bit later to guide you qualifying as it happens - please do join us again!

That's it for practice sessions this year. Just the small matter of qualifying and the race to go...

Photo by: Ronald Vording

Verstappen improves slightly with his last lap of the session, now just 0.124s off Russell and 0.120s off Norris.

Russell leads the session, then - so Mercedes is very much in the fight for pole here.

Ocon's found a good time to get up to sixth, perhaps he's found a fix for his braking woes. As it stands, the top 17 is all within 0.8s.

Norris can't quite improve either, despite improvement in the opening two sectors.

Some damage to Tsunoda's sidepod and floor, so he's ended up coming back in. Albon had ringside seats for the incident.

"The car still jumps, I can't keep my feet on the pedals," Verstappen reports.

The McLarens go out for a second set of laps on the same softs - Piastri is a smidgen slower than his previous effort.

Antonelli drove out of the pitlane and straight into the path of Tsunoda - which has caused damage to the Italian's front wing.

Better news for Mercedes is that Russell has gone to the top, 0.004s up on Norris. Verstappen goes third fastest, 0.180s off Russell's effort.

Bortoleto was matching Norris through that lap, as was Alonso - but their final sector times were well down on that of Norris.

You can get close in those opening sectors, as they're mainly affected by the braking into Turns 5, 6, and 7. But the final sector is the difficult bit.

Norris looked unsteady through Turn 6 and 7, and has to correct himself. He's down on Piastri out of the opening two sectors, but finds a monster final sector to post a 1m23.338s.

Hulkenberg's on a quick lap too, although has a small correction in the final sector - thus, he's 0.532s down.

Verstappen does a 1m24.116s, while Tsunoda aborts his lap.

But Piastri demonstrates the worth of those new tyres, and posts a 1m23.593s to go top by some margin.

Here we are - fresh softs for Piastri, Norris, and Stroll. Verstappen's on a swift one as we speak...

And we go again, 17 minutes on the clock. Nobody has gone out on fresh tyres, so perhaps they're saving a final set of softs until the final 10 minutes or so.

Alright, we're ready to go - almost. We'll restart in a minute's time.

We're just waiting for the go-ahead while Hamilton's car gets picked out of the Tecpro barrier - and, of course, for the barrier to be sorted.

Bit of repair work for Ferrari to do too, as the front-right suspension is hanging on by a thread.

Hamilton was on a quick lap and, on the turn-in to Turn 9 at the end of the second back stretch, the rear just went out from under him.

"Something buckled at the front and snapped the rear," Hamilton reported, as he gets out of the car.

Hamilton spins at Turn 9 and goes into the wall!

Bearman posts another lap, 0.086s off Verstappen's benchmark. He's been quick all weekend so far.

McLaren has more to find on its subsequent runs, although both drivers did their first soft-tyre laps relatively early into the session compared to those in the top five. Mercedes too, as Russell's only 13th and Antonelli's 17th.

Hamilton hits a 1m24.470s to go fastest, but is beaten by Verstappen by 0.225s. Stroll sets a time just 0.059s off Verstappen's effort.

Tsunoda, after that near-miss, splits the two Saubers - who are currently sixth and eighth.

Woah! Norris came across a very slow Tsunoda on the exit of Turn 11, and very nearly resulted in the two coming together.

Shades of Rosberg and Karthikeyan in the 2012 race there, when the then-Mercedes driver saw the HRT too late.

Norris sets a 1m24.533s on his second run on those softs. Tsunoda is up to second - or was, as Leclerc, then Bearman, go up to P2 - Bearman just 0.008s off.

Piastri is 0.595s off Norris at the present moment, in fifth. Laps coming in thick and fast now.

Both Aston Martin drivers have been given a €25,000 fine for not appearing at a scheduled fan engagement activity - with €15,000 of that suspended for 12 months.

The team had apparently said to both drivers that their appearances weren't required due to them stepping back for Jak Crawford and Cian Shields in FP1. Aston Martin has offered to make it up to the fans by making both drivers available for an appearance later this weekend.

Norris sets a 1m24.728s, so the circuit's not quite where it was at the end of yesterday.

But we expect it to ramp up a bit towards the end of the session. Leclerc does a time and goes second fastest, but he's over a second off Norris.

Here comes one of the big hitters, as Lando Norris breaks onto the circuit. Charles Leclerc also arrives on the scene.

Gasly has set a 1m25.984s, and Colapinto with a 1m26.591s, with our first timed laps of the season.

Colapinto and Gasly hit the road now, on Renault's final F1 weekend as an engine supplier...for now.

It's not the first time we've said that - Renault left at the end of 1986 and 1997 - and in both cases, returned within five years.

The works Renault engine teams Williams and Benetton

Photo by: Motorsport Images

It's still just the Aston Martin duo doing their laps around the circuit. Both Alonso and Stroll were summoned to the stewards for missing the fan engagement activities earlier on today.

I'm sure they had more important things to do, Aston Martin's drivers really don't need distractions right now as they battle for *checks notes* seventh in the constructors' championship.

Here we go, two Aston Martins going out for their weekly tyre scrub.

In the meantime, we've got F1's car performance graphic on the screen, which almost certainly means nothing.

...but no takers just yet. Limited tyres across a weekend, of course, so teams don't want to go out just yet.

Give it a few minutes.

And here's your weather watch: it's 27C and a little cloudy out there, with 38C track temperature.

It's the last chance for our 20 drivers to get acquainted to their cars over a practice session, before we get into qualifying later on.

We'll see if there's any big overnight changes - did McLaren and Red Bull find anything extra, and will Mercedes supply a bit more of a challenge, or will Haas and Sauber continue to surprise?

Esteban Ocon, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Max Verstappen is currently feeling pessimistic about his Abu Dhabi Grand Prix chances as Red Bull lacks pace to McLaren at the 2025 Formula 1 title showdown.

The four-time world champion finished runner-up to McLaren championship leader Lando Norris in both FP1 (+0.008s) and FP2 (+0.363s) on Friday at Yas Marina Circuit.

It comes during the season finale where Norris simply needs a podium finish to claim a maiden title, as he is 12 points ahead of Verstappen and 16 above team-mate Oscar Piastri.

Lando Norris ended the final Friday practice session of 2025 on top of the FP2 standings at the Formula 1 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, over three tenths clear of Max Verstappen - as Oscar Piastri was only 11th.

Hello everyone, and welcome back to our coverage of practice at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.

And it's the last practice session of the season, before we get into the business end of the year-long title battle.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aston-martin-hit-with-massive-fines-as-fans-left-for-several-hours-in-the-heat/10782747/
DATE: 2025

The Aston Martin Formula 1 team has been hit with hefty fines ahead of the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix after both  and  missed a mandatory fan engagement activation on Friday.

Both drivers were summoned after the FIA Media Delegate reported that they failed to attend the event, resulting in the team being found to have breached Article 19.2(c) of the FIA Formula 1 Sporting Regulations.

According to the documents, the Aston Martin drivers were defended by the team's sporting director and chief communications officer, who argued that due to them not taking part in FP1, they were not expected to take part in the fan event. This was communicated to the drivers by the team.

The stewards rejected this argument, with the document adding that fans are "the core of Formula 1". The document also states that "many fans had waited for several hours in the heat, to see the drivers at the Fan Engagement."

As a result, the Silverstone team was fined a huge €25,000 per driver, of which €15,000 per driver is suspended for 12 months on the condition that the team will not breach Article 19 over that period.

Cian Shields, Aston Martin F1 Team

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

In a bid to smooth things over with fans, the team will be visiting the fan zone over the weekend and handing out signed hats to fans wearing Aston Martin merchandise. On top of this, two fans will be given an exclusive garage tour and also given the opportunity to watch a session from the garage and meet both drivers for photos.

These amendments were a promise to the FIA, which has asked for proof.

Friday was unspectacular for Aston Martin, with both drivers sitting out FP1 to give young drivers Jak Crawford and Cian Shields time behind the wheel. FP2 saw Alonso finish ninth on the timesheet, with Stroll finishing 12th - both firmly in a condensed midfield.

"Tricky circuit always to balance the car," Alonso said following his session. "Very different corner speeds in the first sector and in the last sector. The hotel section is always very slow and difficult to negotiate, but yeah, I think as expected. And let's try to find more, especially front grip for tomorrow, and try to be more competitive."

On Crawford and Shields, the two-time champion added, "I think they did a very good job in FP1. We got all the data that we wanted, so they drove consistently, and yeah, I think it was not much missing."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/fernando-alonsos-cheeky-f1-secret-santa-gift-leaves-fans-in-stitches/10782611/
DATE: 2025

As Formula 1 prepares for the final race of the 2025 season, the drivers have exchanged gifts for Secret Santa ahead of the Christmas break.

Aston Martin's , who is the oldest driver on the grid at 44 years old, was pictured and filmed unwrapping a walking stick. It comes as no surprise that the moment quickly gained traction on social media, with fans commenting on the funny exchange.

"I read somewhere that apparently Hulk was his Secret Santa. Top-tier sh**housery," one fan commented on Reddit, while another added: "That cane is likely hundreds of dollars and that's what is cracking me up right now."

When  was pinpointed as the giver of the cane, many were able to see the lighter side of the gift. "That makes it less mean and more hilarious," another fan wrote, while another responded: "Yeah, if it was from a rookie it would have been super disrespectful."

Another fan took the opportunity to take a jab at Aston Martin. "What a thoughtful gift. That back must hurt from carrying Aston Martin for the past three years," they wrote.

The Silverstone outfit is currently in the fight for sixth in the constructors' championship. It sits seventh with 80 points ahead of the season finale in Abu Dhabi.  sits sixth with 92 points.

Alonso is 12th in the drivers' standings with 48 points, while his team-mate  is 17th with 32 points.

"As expected, I think," Alonso told the media after the first two practice sessions in Abu Dhabi. "Tricky circuit always to balance the car, very different corner speeds in the first sector and in the last sector.

"The hotel section is always very slow and difficult to negotiate, but yeah, I think as expected. And let's try to find more, especially front grip for tomorrow, and try to be more competitive."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp2-1126167/1126168/
DATE: 2025

That's all from us, we shall be back for FP3 tomorrow.

As we start wrapping up this live commentary, I'll hit you with this stat.

Max Verstappen could become the fourth driver to have won the F1 title without leading the championship at any point during the season.

John Surtees (1964), James Hunt (1976) and Sebastian Vettel (2010) are those to have done it up to now.

Sebastian Vettel, Red Bull Racing RB6

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar / Motorsport Images

The session may be over but it's a busy track, because no doubt we'll start seeing some practice starts.

That's that then! The perfect day for Norris, who topped FP1 and FP2 with title rival Verstappen second in both. Piastri, meanwhile, nowhere near having skipped FP1 before finishing 11th in second practice.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

An interesting look at laps completed in FP2 and Verstappen, Albon and Lawson lead the way with 29. Ocon has completed the least on 24.

Bit of a boring end to the session with cars just going through their respective programmes. As predicted earlier, the leaderboard hasn't really changed in the last 10 minutes.

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Gabriel Bortoleto: "Who's this Ferrari?"

Jose Manuel Lopez: "Leclerc...the big Leclerc."

Bit of a funny exchange between Bortoleto and his Sauber race engineer after encountering the Ferrari on track.

It comes as FP1 saw both Charles and Arthur Leclerc drive for Ferrari as part of F1's young driver rule. Lewis Hamilton is now back though, but has spent much of FP2 in the bottom half.

Arthur Leclerc, Scuderia Ferrari

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

"Don't think he's totally dialled in yet, but he'll get there," Zak Brown tells Sky Sports regarding Piastri.

For the sake of a dramatic title showdown, let's hope he does because he's been nowhere in this FP2 session.

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Cars are back out and many are onto the harder compounds as expected. They'll be going through their long-run programmes now and so it's unlikely that the leaderboard will change much in the final 15 minutes.

Once again, good from Sauber which is fifth and sixth in this session after finishing fifth and seventh in FP1.

Hulkenberg and Bortoleto seem to be giving Peter Sauber a good send-off before the Audi takeover next year.

Gabriel Bortoleto, Sauber

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

"I don't know how it's so good," reported a jubilant Bearman, who is fourth in his Haas. Don't sound so surprised Oli, you did finish fourth in Mexico not long ago!

Looks like the hectic soft-tyre window is now coming to a close with half the grid back in their respective garages. Happy days for Lando and Max, but not Oscar.

Does it get better for Oscar on his second run? Not really, he remains 10th and was seven tenths off on that lap after a lock up at Turn 7. A lot of work to be done for the Aussie, who was once in complete command of this championship.

Although, Piastri didn't have a great first run on the softs as he is six tenths off the pace with reports of balance issues...

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

And now Norris goes fastest with the softs, ahead of Verstappen and Russell. So yes, sort of similar to FP1 in that the usual frontrunners are now at the front in this soft-tyre window.

Speaking of soft-tyre runs, Red Bull has fitted a set onto Verstappen's car and straight away he's gone quickest with 34 minutes remaining...

Thanks for that Fil, adding on the action, there are resemblances to FP1 which early on had a few random names at the top. That's like now with Bearman and Hadjar being the top two.

It wasn't until the soft-tyre runs around the 30-minute mark that the usual suspects stamped their mark.

I'm standing at Latifi Corner, which is a good spot to see this generation of F1 cars in anger one last time. Judging from the pulsating beats emanating from the packed yachts lining Yas Marina behind, not everyone shares our interest in FP2.

But we're hearing there has been a last minute surge in interest in this weekend after the events of Las Vegas and Qatar. A lot of fans and VIPs made a late effort to be here for the decider.

And it's dangerous to extrapolate too much from a single corner sequence, but you probably don't need us to tell you the Ferrari looks a handful.

It's been a very busy opening 15 minutes with 19 drivers currently on track. All three compounds are in use as well, mostly the mediums, with Hadjar currently top on the softs.

Norris is fastest of those with the mediums and Hulkenberg on the hards.

Isack Hadjar, Racing Bulls Team

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Verstappen caught out by Norris behind after receiving mixed messages from Lambiase over whether the McLaren was on a fast lap or not.

"What's this guy doing?", was Norris' response. Mind games already started?

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

ICYMI - Exclusive: Lindblad on his F1 graduation and telling Norris 'I would see him in five years'

By graduating to Racing Bulls in 2026, Britain's Arvid Lindblad has delivered on his own childhood vision that he would somehow make it to Formula 1. Speaking exclusively to Autosport, he tells all about his ambition, his Swedish-Indian family heritage and a promise he made to Lando Norris.

And Bearman is now replaced at the top by another driver on the soft tyre which is Hadjar.

It's no surprise that the quickest time is currently set by one of only two drivers on the soft tyre: Bearman with a 1m24.744s.

Ocon is also on softs with the rest on mediums apart from Hulkenberg and Colapintio, who have hard rubber.

The hard tyre was predominantly used in the early stages of FP1, but the medium rubber seems the most popular for this more representative second session. It's already a busy track.

Several drivers in contention for the F1 title going into the season finale? We've been here before... As Lando Norris, Max Verstappen and Oscar Piastri prepare to battle for the 2025 world championship, here’s how it previously panned out...

Who else was in the team principal press conference? Obviously Red Bull's Laurent Mekies with Verstappen also a title contender. But it wasn't all questions about the championship fight, because this week the Austrian outfit announced Hadjar as Verstappen's team-mate for 2026 meaning Tsunoda is without a seat.

On the matter of Tsunoda and his chances of returning to F1, Mekies said: "We have tried everything we could to to support Yuki. At some stage we had to make the difficult call between where we were seeing that going for for the following years. "I hope and I think that Yuki will get another chance. He will be reserve driver with us next year, you never know what's going to happen.

"We have been we have been quite famous in making fairly swift driver decisions in the past. So, look, when I recall one moment at the end of the season 2024, Yuki was was driving very well. It was very difficult for him to digest."

Yuki Tsunoda, Red Bull Racing, Laurent Mekies, Red Bull Racing Team Principal

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

McLaren's Zak Brown was also in the Abu Dhabi team boss press conference and he was asked about the prospect of team orders between Lando and Oscar come Sunday.

“In the sense of team orders, as long as both drivers have a chance to win the world championship – which they clearly do sitting here right now – then it's business as usual, they're free to race,” said Brown.

“Obviously we’ll be practical and realistic. If, as the weekend develops, as the race develops, it becomes clear that one has a significantly better chance than another, then we're a team that wants to win the drivers' championship, and we will race accordingly to do whatever we can to get whatever that driver is in front to try and win the race.

“Our team orders have been around giving equal opportunity to win the championship, but as the race plays out, if it becomes clear that both can't, then we're going to do what's in the best interest of the team and try and win the drivers' championship.”

Away from the title picture, it was a strong FP1 for Sauber as Hulkenberg finished fifth with Bortoleto seventh. It will be the final race for the Swiss squad before it becomes the Audi works team next year.

Over to team principal Jonathan Wheatley, who said: "We have Peter Sauber [team founder] with us this weekend. Peter and I get on brilliantly.

"What we want to do is sign off on this incredible journey in Formula 1 for the Sauber name by making him as proud as we can on Sunday and putting to bed respectfully the Sauber legacy as we move forward into becoming the Audi F1 team."

Nico Hulkenberg, Sauber

Photo by: Andy Hone/ LAT Images via Getty Images

No doubt the McLaren driver will be happy to be back for FP2...

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

We all know what's at stake this weekend with Norris, Verstappen and Piastri all fighting for the title.

The Aussie may be on the back foot though after skipping FP1 as part of F1's young driver mandate. Norris and Verstappen were the top two in the relatively uneventful session:

Hello, and welcome to live commentary of second practice for this weekend's Abu Dhabi GP!
