======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/romain-grosjean-haas-farewell-test/4924943/
DATE: 2020

Grosjean has been forced to miss the final two races of the 2020 season due to injuries sustained to his hands in his fiery accident at the Bahrain Grand Prix two weeks ago.

It marked a premature end to Grosjean’s time with Haas, having previously confirmed his exit at the end of the current season, and is likely to have been his final F1 appearance.

Grosjean previously said that if he could not race in Abu Dhabi,  to ensure the accident is not his final memory of F1.

But Grosjean will not be able to complete this test with the Haas team he spent five seasons racing for as it does not have any old machinery available and running for him to test.

“Unfortunately we don’t have any old cars, because we don’t have power units,” team principal Steiner told Motorsport.com.

“We have got plenty of old cars, but they have no engine in it, so we cannot do that unfortunately.

“Maybe in the future we’ve got something, I don’t know. But at the moment, I couldn’t make that promise."

in one of its older cars if no other team is able to accommodate it.

Steiner hoped that it would be possible to arrange a run for Grosjean for Ferrari - who supplies Haas with engines - at an event in the future, rather than draw in a power unit just for a test in a Haas car.

“It’s more likely to able to talk to Ferrari to have him drive one of their older cars when they do an event or something,” Steiner said.

“That is for sure possible to do. I think that is the easier solution than us preparing a car, because they have got the department which is doing that stuff for customers. We don’t have these resources at the moment.

“But if he wants to do it, I’ll let him heal up completely, and then we’ll see what he wants to do and what he’s able to do.

“Then we’ll decide if he can make a good day of fun out of it, the last day in an F1 car for him.”

Grosjean returned home to Switzerland at the start of the week, where he will continue treatment for burns to his hands that were sustained in the accident.

Once recovered, he would be permitted to test F1 machinery that is at least two years old, meaning he could drive a 2019-spec car from early next year.

Grosjean revealed on Friday that he intended to race in Abu Dhabi with a special helmet design created by his three young children.

“This is the most beautiful helmet I could ever imagine,” Grosjean wrote on Instagram. “It was created by Sacha, Simon and Camille for my last F1 race in Abu Dhabi.

“I will try to give it a ride in the future as it's far too beautiful to stay at home unused!”

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/magnussen-abu-dhabi-final-race/4924582/
DATE: 2020

Outgoing Haas F1 driver  for next season, racing in the top DPi category.

It will mark a first foray into sportscar racing for Magnussen, and brings the curtain down on an F1 career that started back in 2014 with McLaren.

Asked by Motorsport.com if he was treating this weekend’s season finale at the Yas Marina Circuit as his final race, Magnussen said he was ready to say goodbye to F1.

"I’m pretty at peace with it,” Magnussen said. “I know in motorsport you should never say never. In Formula 1, lots of things can happen, and you should never say never.

“But I’m ready to call this my last race. I’m going to go out and enjoy it, drive the car, this amazing car that is so satisfying to drive, and just think back on this amazing opportunity that i’ve been given.

“Growing up as a kid and dreaming about Formula 1, and wanting to get to Formula 1, and getting there and making a career out of it, it’s something that I feel really lucky and privileged to be able to have done.”

Magnussen made his F1 debut with McLaren in 2014, finishing second at his very first race, but was dropped at the end of his rookie season to make way for Fernando Alonso at the team.

Magnussen went into the 2014 season finale with his future uncertain as McLaren weighed up whether to drop him or Jenson Button.

But he felt emotions were vastly different heading into this weekend’s final race, allowing him to enjoy it more.

“It’s not like I’m really feeling like sad or anything, like last time, in 2014, when I was very nervous about everything,” Magnussen said.

“I remember Abu Dhabi in ’14 being a terrible race. There was so much uncertainty and they had told me that they would take the option, and then it dragged out and they didn’t take the option, and eventually dropped me.

“I remember being so sad about everything and depressed about it. But now, I’ve had a few years in Formula 1, and I’m really looking forward to what is going to happen next.

“It’s super exciting, and something that I’m truly looking forward to.”

Magnussen felt the saddest part of the race weekend would come when he says goodbye to his race mechanics and team for the final time on Sunday.

“Certainly when I park the car for the race, I’m going to think about the fact that jumping out of the car, could be the last time I jump out of a Formula 1 car,” Magnussen said.

“But I think the main thing that’s going to be emotional is saying goodbye to all the guys in Haas F1 Team. It’s a bunch of people that I’ve really grown very close to, and some people that have been super supportive of me over those four years, some guys that I’ve become friends with.

“I’m certainly going to miss working with every other weekend. I think that’s going to be the main emotional thing.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/grosjean-abu-dhabi-return-haas/4922331/
DATE: 2020

Grosjean was left with burns to his hands after a terrifying crash on the opening lap of last Sunday’s Bahrain Grand Prix, escaping from a large fire that followed a collision with the barrier at Turn 3 recording more than 50G.

Grosjean was ruled out of this weekend’s Sakhir Grand Prix on Monday, but remained hopeful that he could race in Abu Dhabi and make his final appearance for Haas ahead of his departure.

But in a statement issued shortly before Sunday’s second Bahrain race, Haas announced that Grosjean would not be racing in Abu Dhabi, but will instead return home to Switzerland to continue treatment for his injuries.

Reserve driver Pietro Fittipaldi will once again stand in for Grosjean at the Yas Marina Circuit.

“It is with great sadness that I will not be able to do my final race in Abu Dhabi and be with the team there,” said Grosjean.

“We’ve tried as much as we could with the doctor to recover and to repair my hand, but the risk of racing is too big for my recovery and my health.

“So, the decision was made that I’m not going to race. It’s one of the hardest decisions of my life, but it’s obviously one of the wisest.

“I will miss the team, but I will be supporting them as ever.”

Grosjean has already said that he would like to complete a private F1 test at the earliest opportunity to ensure his time in the series does not end with his accident.

Mercedes team boss Toto Wolff confirmed on Saturday that he would be willing to accommodate such a test should no other team be working with Grosjean.

“I’m naturally very sorry that Romain will miss what was going to be his final race with Haas,” said Haas team boss Gunther Steiner.

“But we are all in agreement that he has to take the best course of action regarding his treatment and recovery from last Sunday’s incident.

“Romain has shown exceptional bravery and amazing spirit over the last few days. We know how badly he wanted to be able to return to the cockpit of the VF-20 in Abu Dhabi. And we all would have loved him to have been there too.”

Grosjean joined Haas for its debut F1 season in 2016, with this weekend’s Sakhir Grand Prix set to be the team’s first race where the Frenchman is not in one of his cars.

The team announced in October that Grosjean would be leaving after five years, making way for an all-rookie line-up of Nikita Mazepin and Mick Schumacher in 2021.

“Romain believed in our Formula 1 project at the very start, he committed to drive for us before we’d even built a car,” Steiner said.

“There is no doubting the determination and sheer effort he has put into helping us to achieve what we have as a young team in Formula 1.

“We will forever be grateful for that belief and commitment. It is those qualities, his drive and ambition, that I’m sure will aid him on his recovery.

“On behalf of Gene Haas and myself, together with the whole Haas F1 Team operation, we wish Romain well and a return to full health.”

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/fittipaldi-grid-penalty-sakhir-engine/4921745/
DATE: 2020

The Brazilian, who takes over Romain Grosjean’s PU season allocation, received a new energy store and a new control electronics for FP3 on Saturday.

Fittipaldi enjoyed a solid first day with Haas on Friday, taking 19th place in FP1 after damaging his tyres when he locked up, and then 18th in FP2.

“It’s been a year since I’ve driven an F1 car, eight months since I’ve driven anything on track,” he said.

“I took the day step-by-step, I just kept my focus and kept calm. I was really happy with the day. The team has helped me with everything, the engineers did a great job talking me through things, and the mechanics have done a great job as well.

“The only set-back was in FP1, we had a lock-up that damaged my tyres, I couldn’t do any further running. I kept my cool and we just went into FP2 and got through our run plan.”

Team boss Guenther Steiner said on Friday that Fittipaldi had settled in well, and noted that it was too early to discuss whether he will retain the reserve role in 2021.

“He really prepared well for it over the last week since we told him he is going to race instead of Romain,” said Steiner.

“He prepared himself and we just have to let the weekend come to us and try to make progress with him.

“I don’t know really yet what he is going to do next year, whether he is going back to race in some other series, We haven’t really talked about that one. But Pietro became a friend to the team in the two years he is with us.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/grosjean-crash-perspective-bahrain-fire/4920894/
DATE: 2020

The Frenchman crashed out of the Bahrain Grand Prix on the opening lap last weekend, with his car plunging through the barriers and splitting in to two before bursting into flames.

Grosjean said that he initially did not realise that the car was on fire when he first tried to get out, but then faced difficulties finding a way out of the cockpit as he was briefly trapped.

“For me it wasn't quite 28 seconds, it felt more like 1m30s if I'd put a time on it,” said the Haas driver, speaking to media on Friday afternoon in Bahrain.

“When the car came to a stop, I opened my eyes, and undid my seatbelt straight away. The thing I didn't remember the next days what what did I do with the steering wheel because I don't have the memory of taking the steering wheel off and putting it out?

“The team said no, the steering had gone in between your legs, the column and everything broke and went down. I didn't have to bother with the steering wheel then, so I tried to jump out. But I felt like something was touching my head, so I sit back down in the car and my first thought was, I'm going to wait. I'm upside down against the wall, so I'm going to wait that come someone comes and helps me.”

Grosjean said at this moment he thought the biggest danger had passed, but it was then that he realised there was a fire.

“I wasn't in distress and obviously I didn’t know there was this fire. Then I look right and left and watching on the left, I see fire. So I say, okay, I don't really have the time to wait here.

“So the next thing is that I tried to go up a bit more on the right, and it doesn't work. I go again on the left, it doesn't work. I sit back down and then I thought about Niki Lauda, his accident, and thought, yeah, it couldn't end like this. It couldn't be my last race. It couldn't finish like this. No way. So I try again. And I'm stuck.”

A fire marshal extinguishes the flames after a huge crash for Romain Grosjean, Haas VF-20, on the opening lap

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Grosjean then says this moment was the most difficult for him as he briefly felt his body relaxing and started wondering if he was not going to get out and how much pain he was going to go through.

“I go back down and then there's the less pleasant moment where my body started to relax. I'm at peace with myself and [I think] I'm going to die. I asked my question: is it going to burn my shoe, or my foot or my hand? Is it going to be painful? Where is it going to start?

“To me that looks like two, three or four seconds. I guess it will be milliseconds at a time. And then, I think about my kids, and they cannot lose their dad today. So I don't know why I did it, but I decided to turn my helmet on the left hand side and to go up and then try to twist my shoulder. That sort of worked.

“But then I realised my foot is stuck in the car. So I sit back down. I pull as hard as I can on my left leg. The shoe stayed where my foot was, but my foot came out of the shoe.

“And then I do it again and then the shoulder is going through [the gap] and, at the time the shoulder was through, I know I'm going to jump out. I've got both hands on the fire that time.

“My gloves are red normally, and I see, especially the left one, changing colour, starting melting and going full black. I feel the pain that my hands are in the fire, but also I feel the relief that I am out of the car.

“Then I jump out, I go on the barrier and then I feel Ian [Roberts, F1 doctor] pulling on my overalls. So, I know I'm not on my own anymore and there is someone with me.”

Once out of the car and being led away, Grosjean said he feared he was a human fireball, but says he instantly had the presence of mind to remove his gloves in case they continued burning his hands.

“When I land and then they touch on my back, I'm like, 'Oh shit, I'm like a running fireball. I had that image that we've seen a video from the FIA when they did a test, they put someone on fire and he runs around just to show the overalls were strong. I've got an image that I've got fire following me.

“Then I shake my hand because they're very hot in pain. I removed my gloves straight away because I've got also that image that the skin is in bubbles and melting, and it's going to stick to the gloves. So straight away I want to remove both of my gloves so that the skin doesn't go with it.

“Then Ian comes to see me and speaks to me and says 'Sit down!' I gave him shit and said, ‘talk to me normally please’. I guess he understood that I was okay at a time, that I was normal. And then we sit and we're too close to the fire and I hear the extinguisher guys from the fire saying 'the battery is on fire, bring some other extinguisher bring some other extinguisher'.

“Then we go into the medical car. Sit down. They put some cold compress on my hand. I told them my hands are burned, my foot is broken. But then the pain really starts going very high, especially on the left foot. The hands were okay at a time, the left foot starts being very painful.”

Romain Grosjean, Haas F1, is taken away on a stretcher after his opening lap crash

Photo by: Andy Hone /

With the ambulance on his way, Grosjean was then told that he would be stretchered away, but he defiantly told Roberts that he wanted to walk from the medical car so he could show the world he was not seriously injured.

“Ian explains to me the ambulance is coming and they're going to come with the bed and I’m going to be okay. We keep talking at the time. And I say ‘no, no, no we are walking to the ambulance’. They say. 'no, no, no, the bed is coming’. I say 'no no no', and I walk out of the car and I say we are walking. They then say okay we're going to help you.

“I guess on the medical side it wasn't the perfect decision but they understood that for me it was key at the point that there was some footage of me walking towards the ambulance, even though I'd walked out of the fire.

“I needed to send another strong message that I was okay and I was going to walk towards the ambulance.

“After that every time I met anyone, I would say two burned hands, one broken foot. That's all I could say to everyone that I was meeting. I was scared obviously of my condition and I wanted everyone that was coming in and treating me to know what the symptoms were.

“But that is the full story of the 28 seconds. As you can imagine, it looked longer than 28 seconds with all the thoughts I had, so they must have been milliseconds.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/medical-car-grosjean-crash-bahrain/4919707/
DATE: 2020

However, the modest pair would be the first to admit that they are just the tip of the iceberg on any given grand prix weekend, backed up by the local medics and marshals stationed around the track.

Indeed a Bahraini fireman, a guy whose day job is with the country’s civil defence force, was at the heart of the rapid response that helped to ensure that Grosjean was able to walk away with minor injuries.

The truth is that Roberts and Van der Merwe have been heroes for years, like their predecessors in their roles, performing a vital but largely unheralded task. They are always there, stationed in their Mercedes AMG estate at the end of the pitlane, with a local doctor occupying one of the rear seats.

By definition a good grand prix weekend is one when we don’t notice them, because that means there have been no serious incidents that required their attention.

A former British F3 champion and BAR test driver, Van der Merwe was still an active racing driver when he landed the medical car driving job back in 2009.

Roberts, well known in the sport as the chief medical officer at Silverstone, joined him at the start of 2013. He replaced Gary Hartstein, who had taken over from Sid Watkins – the man responsible for making the medical car such a vital part of any race weekend.

Van der Merwe and Roberts are most visible on the first lap, when they follow the pack around. Had Grosjean’s accident occurred at any other time in the Bahrain event, it would have taken them much longer to get there. Indeed, had it happened later around the first lap, vital time would have been lost.

In fact, Van der Merwe stopped at the crash site just beyond Turn 3 only nine seconds after the initial impact. Roberts was able to jump out of the passenger side and head straight to the fire, just as a marshal – who had crossed the track – arrived with an extinguisher. Initially it was hard to comprehend the scene they found, given the rarity of fire in the modern era.

“We saw the fireball early on, of course,” says Roberts. “But then arriving on scene, the car, well half a car, the rear end, was pointing in the wrong direction. And it was, ‘Where on earth is the rest?’

“We just looked to the right. And it was pretty obvious where it was, with a big gap in the armco. And we could see through, with Romain trying to try to get himself out.”

Romain Grosjean, Haas F1, emerges from flames after a horrific accident on the opening lap of the Bahrain Grand Prix. Marshals extinguish the fire

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Spotting Grosjean amid the flames was crucial, and Roberts helped the marshal direct the extinguisher straight at the cockpit. That blast allowed Roberts himself to get closer, and in pushing the flames back it may also have given the disorientated driver a crucial chance to see what he was doing as he struggled to escape.

“Not to put too fine a point on it, but it looked like an oven,” says Roberts. “So it was red with flame. And you could see him trying to get himself out, and he was gradually getting himself further and further out.

“But it was how do we get to him? There was a fire marshal pretty rapidly on scene. And that push of the extinguisher, the powder just pushed the flames back enough.

“Once Romain was high enough then we could get him over the barrier and away. But it's a very small window, I have to say because as soon as the extinguisher powder went forward, the flames were coming back pretty soon afterwards.

“That bit was stinging. It's definitely helped my tan! Something melted on me, but I was pretty well protected otherwise. The flame was pretty intense.”

It’s worth pointing out that while he wears racing overalls, Roberts has an open helmet – so he was putting himself at considerable personal risk. He couldn’t just dive in.

“If there's somebody in trouble, you go and help,” he says. “You have to assess the risk. I mean, it would have been daft to try and go in there with the flames coming towards you, so that extinguisher helped, for sure.

“To incapacitate myself, it would have been crazy to do that. It's a balance of risk. I go in when I can, if the flames are coming at me, there's nothing I can do. As much as it's upsetting, you can only do so much.”

Medical delegates assist Romain Grosjean, Haas F1, after his huge first lap crash

Photo by: Andy Hone /

He downplays his actions, but to get so close to the flames, especially with an open helmet, was an act of considerable bravery.

“That's what we're here to do,” says Van der Merwe. “And that's what Ian's been doing all of his life pretty much, rescuing people when they're in a bit of trouble.

“Funnily enough, priority number one is not actually the driver, it's Ian, because when Ian is down, then nothing's going to happen anymore.

“So you kind of have to manage your risk appropriately. Ian runs in there and gets incapacitated, I'm not going to be able to do much.

“There's so many things to balance it to just, to judge within one or two seconds, whether we're waiting for fire support, for some extinguisher support, or whether you're trying to go in. There's a lot there's a lot to decide.”

After Grosjean jumped over the barrier, Roberts was able to lead him to the medical car, while Van der Merwe gave both men a quick squirt of extinguisher powder. Grosjean may have been mobile, but the priority was to check for injuries that might not have been obvious.

“He said that he was in pain from his foot, and from his hands, because as you know, he has some burns on his hands, which are extremely painful,” says Roberts.

“But it was just a matter of getting him sat down briefly, just to check the life threatening things were covered. And then getting him away from the flame. So then, it was into the ambulance and off to the medical centre.

“Of course, I'd have to say that it's not just the two of us, we have a national doctor with us in the car, there's a whole medical team here, a whole set of marshals, fire marshals, rescue people.

“And they all did their bit. If they weren't there, it's not just a two-man show, we work with a team, we work together as a team. So it's important to recognise that.”

Marshals extinguish the flames after a big crash for Romain Grosjean, Haas VF-20, on the opening lap

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Given the scale of the accident and the fact that debris had obviously passed over the barrier, Roberts also had to ensure that no one else was involved.

“There's always a quick check of the scene,” he says. “And there's always the danger that there might be somebody else across a barrier that you've not seen, it could be a marshal who's been hit by debris, and suddenly somebody says, ‘Where are they?’ And they find them behind a barrier.

“So it's important just to have a quick scan, to make sure. There have been scenarios in the past where for multiple incidents where you really do need to account for everyone.

“We work very, very, very closely with race control, as you can imagine, and with the local teams too. I definitely want to emphasise it's a big team effort.”

It’s worth recalling that Roberts has vast experience in trauma, having worked for many years in HEMS (helicopter emergency medical service).

He’s been at the scenes of hundreds of serious incidents both in his day job and in motor racing, including sadly the Jules Bianchi crash at Suzuka in 2014.

However, he and Van der Merwe are not a fire service, as they are usually not expected to arrive at such a dramatic incident, because in normal circumstances marshals would beat them to it. And yet those hours of training and preparation kicked in.

“At the beginning of every day we run through a checklist for the car, for our equipment,” says Roberts. “But we also run through a checklist of scenarios.

“So we always talk about cars under barriers, cars on the roof, like Lance [Stroll], flipping onto the roof. We've already talked about that scenario, and what we do in mobilising marshals.

“The same for fire. Go for the extinguisher, and we go in and do what we can, as the fire is being extinguished. No, we're not firemen. We're not fire trained. But we know how to use them.”

“It's important to note that we're not there for the easy ones,” says Van der Merwe. “We're there for the ones that are genuinely novel.

“Nine out of 10 accidents are easily survivable. Everything works as it should, the barriers and all of these things kind of work perfectly.

“Every now and then, let's say once every five years or so, we see something that exceeds the design parameters of what we thought of. And that's what we hit.

“That's why we have 550 horsepower, so that we're there three seconds quicker. And that's why we take all the shortcuts we can.

“And so we're looking for tiny, tiny things, so that if Ian was there five seconds slower, or if he took five seconds to decide, it could be very different.”

Fortunately on this occasion everything worked as planned, with a little help from pure good fortune.

“The outcome was incredibly positive,” says Van der Merwe. “In terms of incidents that we've seen together, this was very much at the top of the list in terms of magnitude of being impressive.”

Wreckage of the car of Romain Grosjean, Haas VF-20, after his huge crash

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mick-schumacher-ready-abu-dhabi-f1-debut/4919826/
DATE: 2020

Schumacher was announced as a future driver for the team earlier today, and he has already been confirmed for a Friday FP1 session in Abu Dhabi, where he will be free of any F2 commitments.

Reserve drive  for this weekend’s Sakhir GP, and at the moment the plan is for Frenchman to return for the Abu Dhabi finale.

Grosjean was discharged from hospital on Wednesday morning, and he is continuing his recovery from burns to his hands in a Bahrain hotel.

While a decision on Grosjean's participation won't be made until next week, Schumacher says that he would be happy to make an early graduation if the question arises.

“I think it's great if you are considered to be ready to do that,” said the German. “I feel like I am. Obviously, you have three FPs, in which you have time to learn.

“Obviously, it would be a challenge, but definitely, I think I would be able get to know the car more to be even better prepared for next year.”

Team boss Guenther Steiner insisted that so far there has been no discussion about the possibility of Schumacher racing.

“We haven't spoken,” he insisted. “As I said before, at the moment the status is I want to see where Romain is on Monday.

“That’s what I agreed with him. We have got enough drivers on standby, who can drive, so I'm not worried about that, and we just take the decision when we know hundred percent that Romain can not drive.

“I think he can finish his time with Haas in a race, that's what I would like, and not just watching it. That is our aim, that is what we spoke with him about.

“I said, 'I fully support that you want to go out on a high,' and he said, ‘If I can do it, that is what I want to do.’

"We're not deciding anything before we know that he can definitely not drive.”

Although Schumacher will get his first run in the Haas on Friday in Abu Dhabi Steiner downplayed the significance of the FP1 outing, and suggested that winter testing with the 2021 car would be more important.

“There are only three days of testing in front of next season,” he said when asked by Motorsport.com.

“I think that is a lot more important than the FP1. I think everybody knows my opinion about that, that is a nice thing to do, but it’s not something where you learn a lot. I think the biggest thing you learn is dealing with pressure on a race event, the car technically, there is not a lot you can learn.

“For sure the [young driver] test session after Abu Dhabi is good, a day in the car is good for anybody.

“But the most important thing is that we have a flawless test before next season, that we don’t have any issues in the three days, because three days is not a lot of testing, divided by two.”

Asked why Schumacher and not his future teammate Nikita Mazepin had been given the Abu Dhabi FP1 run Steiner said: “It just developed like this, sometimes things just develop like this. There is no real analysis or study of it done, I don’t know who was there first.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/grosjean-discharged-hospital-bahrain-fire/4919646/
DATE: 2020

Grosjean sustained burns to the back of his hands in a dramatic accident on the opening lap of the race at the Bahrain International Circuit that saw him hit the barrier at 137 mph, recording a force of more than 50g.

Grosjean was taken to the Bahrain Defence Force Hospital after escaping the fire and being taken to the medical centre, and was suspected to have broken a rib in the crash.

But subsequent X-rays showed that Grosjean had sustained no fractures, meaning he only required treatment to the burns on his hands.

Grosjean was meant to be discharged from hospital on Tuesday, but it was decided to keep him in for an additional night.

Haas announced on Wednesday morning that Grosjean had left hospital, but would remain in Bahrain to undergo further private treatment for the burns.

“Haas F1 Team driver Romain Grosjean was discharged from the care of the Bahrain Defence Force (BDF) Hospital at 10:30am local time on Wednesday,” a statement reads.

“Grosjean spent three nights in hospital following Sunday’s incident at the Bahrain Grand Prix.

“Grosjean will continue private treatment for the burns suffered on the back of his hands and will remain in Bahrain for the time being.

“On behalf of Romain Grosjean and the entire Haas F1 Team, we extend our thanks to all who have tended to him at the BDF Hospital.”

as a result of his injuries, with his place at Haas being taken by reserve driver Pietro Fittipaldi.

But the Frenchman remains hopeful of returning for the season finale in Abu Dhabi on 13 December, with Haas set to make a decision depending on his condition early next week.

“I spoke to him yesterday about it, he really wants to be in Abi Dhabi,” said Haas F1 team principal Gunther Steiner.

“But I said, 'try to get better, we’ll speak on Sunday or Monday let's say, how you feel, if it is doable.'

"Pietro is here, Romain is here, we just have to see how he feels, so I'm not in a hurry to decide what to do, or what is needed. It depends on his health.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/fittipaldi-to-replace-injured-grosjean-in-sakhir-gp/4918687/
DATE: 2020

Haas F1 driver Grosjean sustained burns to the backs of his hands in a terrifying crash on the opening lap of the Bahrain Grand Prix on Sunday, leaving him in need of treatment in hospital.

Although Grosjean is set to be released from hospital on Tuesday, Haas has announced that he is unable to race in the Sakhir Grand Prix this weekend.

As a result, Haas reserve driver Fittipaldi will get the call up to make his F1 debut, replacing Grosjean.

"After it was decided that the best thing for Romain was to skip at least one race, the choice to put Pietro in the car was pretty easy," said Haas F1 team principal Gunther Steiner.

"Pietro will drive the VF-20 and he's familiar with us having been around the team for the past two seasons as a test and reserve driver.

"It's the right thing to do and obviously a good opportunity for him. He's been patient and was always prepared for this opportunity, and now it has come.

"That's why we want him in the car and I'm sure he'll do a good job. It's very demeaning being called in at the last minute, but as I said, I think it's the right thing to do for Haas."

Fittipaldi is the grandson of two-time F1 world champion Emerson Fittipaldi, and won the 2017 World Series Formula V8 3.5 title before appearing in IndyCar and once in Super Formula alongside his Haas reserve commitments.

The Brazilian acknowledged it was "not ideal" circumstances under which to make his debut, but thanked the team for its faith to put him in the car.

"I've been with the team a lot this season, both trackside and working on simulator sessions, so I'm familiar with the team's operating procedures on a grand prix weekend," he said.

"It's going to be exciting to make my first career start in Formula 1. I'll be giving it my all and I look forward to starting in free practice on Friday in Bahrain."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/steiner-haas-crew-never-gave-up-in-tough-f1-2021/7039964/
DATE: 2021

After a disastrous 2020 season, Haas decided not to develop its car for 2021 and instead focus straight away on the all-new regulations for 2022.

That meant 2021, with two incoming rookie drivers in  and , was a write-off from the start as the Haas team continued to prop up the timesheets at most races.

While it gave Schumacher and Mazepin the breathing room to develop without significant pressure, it made the gruelling 22-race season extremely tough for the crew, putting in an enormous amount of work for next to no reward.

The Haas team is one of several outfits to see personnel leave due to the demanding schedule already, prompting Haas backer Dmitry .

Despite the team's most challenging year so far - Haas being the only team not to score any points - team principal Steiner said he was impressed with how his crew never gave up and continued to try and extract the maximum out of the car.

"I'm quite impressed how the guys kept on going," Steiner said. "Look at the results, in the end there was never a giving up, we knew where we end up, but we always keep fighting. Even if you are a tenth behind, you try to make it half a tenth and that's thanks to the guys.

"And they really kept on fighting because also there is, I would say, about 60% of the people which are here from the beginning of the team, so they know we can do it. And everybody wants to come back to go and get points again, fight in the midfield.

"I wouldn't say it was easy, but I've got a group of people around me, close to me, who know what we are doing, keep always involved and everybody does his job to get their own people which work for them going. That is what you need to do."

Haas F1 team members on the grid

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Steiner said there was no sugar-coating within the Haas about how tough 2021 would end up being, and thinks the team has the right attitude to keep going into 2022.

"[There] is no point to go out there every race weekend and tell them how great everything will be because they don't believe you after a while, they are smart people, they just need to see what you do in the back counts.," he explained.

"And we never gave up, nobody in the team gave up ever. So that is the most important, and that keeps the team going. I don't have to keep it going. It keeps it going with this attitude."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/shwartzman-haas-fastest-abu-dhabi-test/6885411/
DATE: 2021

Ferrari junior Shwartzman was the only young driver taking part in Wednesday’s test running at the Yas Marina Circuit, with the remainder of the field using modified mule cars on the new 18-inch tyres for 2022.

Teams were only allowed to field a young driver on one of the two days of testing, with all bar Haas opting to do so on Tuesday.

Shwartzman set a fastest lap time of 1m25.348s with 40 minutes remaining in the test day, giving him top spot by almost half a second from McLaren’s Lando Norris.

Norris finished second in a modified version of McLaren’s 2021 MCL35M car, completing more than 100 laps on Pirelli’s 2022 compounds that were made available to those running mule cars. Shwartzman’s running was completed on the 13-inch tyres used this year.

Norris started the day by , offering a sign of future technology that could be used in

Sebastian Vettel recovered from a hydraulic issue in the morning that caused a stoppage and a red flag to end the day third for Aston Martin. He completed more than two race distances for the team, and set his fastest lap in the final five minutes of the session.

George Russell finished fourth for Mercedes after a second day of running in the Mercedes W10 mule car from 2019, ending up six tenths of a second off Norris’s lap time.

Pierre Gasly ended up fifth for AlphaTauri ahead of Carlos Sainz, who was sixth in the Ferrari, while Fernando Alonso clocked almost 150 laps en route to seventh for Alpine.

Guanyu Zhou, Alfa Romeo Racing C39 mule

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

F1 2022 rookie Guanyu Zhou continued to put in the laps for Alfa Romeo ahead of his official debut next year, with the team having fulfilled its young driver running on Tuesday. He took over from Valtteri Bottas in the mule car for Wednesday, and ultimately finished eighth overall, one-tenth of a second clear of Sergio Perez in the Red Bull, with 150 laps on the board.

Pietro Fittipaldi propped up the running order in 10th place for Haas after completing its mule car running through Wednesday. Williams took no part in Wednesday’s test session as it does not have a mule car available.

F1 will return with official on-track running at the end of February with pre-season testing in Barcelona.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mazepin-ruled-out-of-abu-dhabi-f1-gp-after-positive-covid-19-test/6876905/
DATE: 2021

Haas announced five hours before the start of Sunday’s race at the Yas Marina Circuit that Mazepin would not be taking part following his positive result.

“Uralkali Haas F1 Team driver Nikita Mazepin has tested positive for COVID-19 at the Yas Marina Circuit ahead of Sunday’s Abu Dhabi Grand Prix,” a statement from Haas reads.

“The team therefore regrets to announce that Nikita will be unable to participate in the race.

“Nikita is physically well, having been asymptomatic, but he will now self-isolate and adhere to the guidelines of the relevant public health authorities, with safety the ultimate priority for all parties concerned.

“Uralkali Haas F1 Team wish Nikita well and we look forward to his return to the race track in early 2022 for pre-season testing.”

As Mazepin has already qualified for the event, Haas is unable to replace him for the race, meaning Mick Schumacher will solely represent the team in Abu Dhabi.

“There will be no replacement driver in accordance with article 31.1 of the 2021 FIA Formula 1 Sporting Regulations, which prohibits any driver from starting the race who has not taken part in at least one practice session,” reads a statement from F1.

“The procedures set out by the FIA and Formula 1 will ensure no wider impact on the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.”

Mazepin is the second Formula 1 driver to have tested positive for COVID-19 this season. Kimi Raikkonen tested positive over the Dutch Grand Prix weekend, meaning he could not take part in qualifying or the race.

It brings an early end to Mazepin’s first season in F1 that has seen him record a best race finish of 14th in Azerbaijan.

Reviewing his first season in F1 on Saturday during a media call, Mazepin said he would rate his campaign with a 4/5 score.

"I guess four for sticking through it, because times were really tough this year in certain points,” Mazepin said.

“Let's say, probably a three for adaptation, because that's hasn't been my strong point, and I keep improving on it.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/fittpaldi-to-continue-as-haas-f1-test-and-reserve-driver-in-2022/6866273/
DATE: 2021

Fittipaldi, 25, first linked up with Haas at the end of 2018, and made two F1 appearances at the end of 2020 when he deputised for  following his Bahrain accident. He recorded a best finish of 17th in the Sakhir Grand Prix.

Fittipaldi has attended the majority of grands prix through 2021 as Haas’s reserve driver, supporting  and . The team announced on Thursday that he would be continuing in the role next year.

“I’m naturally very happy and excited again by the opportunity to continue my association with Haas,” said Fittipaldi, who is the grandson of two-time F1 world champion Emerson Fittipaldi.

“I’ve been with the team for a few seasons now and they very much feel like family. I’ve learned a lot in my time and I hope I can keep contributing with the introduction of the new generation of Formula 1 car in 2022.

“It’s going to be exciting to see what’s coming with the new package and I’m obviously as keen as the rest of the team to see what the VF-22 will accomplish on-track.”

Pietro Fittipaldi, Haas F1 Haas VF-20

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Haas F1 boss Gunther Steiner called it a “very straightforward decision” to retain Fittipaldi in the role for next season.

“Pietro knows the inner workings of our team very well, having been with us for so long now,” Steiner said.

“He proved to us last year that he was ready to step-up and drive when required and obviously his presence in the team this year has brought continuity as well.

“We’re delighted to continue our relationship and we look forward to having him onboard again in 2022.”

Alongside his commitments at Haas, Fittipaldi made three starts in IndyCar this year for Dale Coyne Racing, including the Indianapolis 500, where he was the fastest rookie qualifier.

Fittipaldi also made his debut in the European Le Mans Series with G-Drive Racing this year, and made a one-off appearance in Brazilian Stock Cars.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/haas-f1-team-tight-on-spare-parts-after-jeddah-shunts/6856338/
DATE: 2021

triggered a red flag when he spun off at the high-speed Turn 22 early in the race.

Following the restart, an unsighted  ran into the back of  as the  driver tried to avoid , who had been spun round by contact with .

Mazepin's chassis was damaged beyond immediate repair, so the spare will be pressed into action for next weekend's Abu Dhabi GP. The Russian already had a chassis change at the Qatar GP after damage was sustained running over a kerb.

Steiner says the team has enough parts with which to start the final weekend of the season, but cannot afford another major accident.

"It's better the damage is done now than five races ago," he told Motorsport.com. "We have got one race to go, we've got enough spares to rebuild the cars, but we don't have enough spares if we have accidents in Abu Dhabi.

"We still have got some, we're not completely out. But there is not a lot of margin, because we didn't expect at the second last race to destroy two cars. It's never good to do this."

Asked to quantify the extent of the damage, he said: "Mick was three corners completely, gearbox, floor, sidepod. His chassis is good, but Nikita's chassis is gone. Another one bites the dust.

"It was the damage from the wheels coming back, the wheels smashed the sides like a drum. Also the complete front suspension. His rear car is not too bad, but the front is completely destroyed on his car.

"As I said, we are good with spare parts, we knew we are good, we planned, we are not running out, but we are using everything up that we have got. If we have a crash in Abu Dhabi in FP1 it's getting tight, because you have two days to go. But otherwise we are fine.

"It's like it doesn't rain, but it pours, so at the moment, it's pouring. The good thing is we've got only one race to go, otherwise, if you've got three races to go, you need to produce parts.

"You cannot now, because you haven't got the time anyway – in three days, you don't make these parts. We have enough and we can just get to the end. And we'll have no inventory to write off left at the end of the year!"

The Medical car attends the crash of Nikita Mazepin, Haas VF-21, and Sergio Perez, Red Bull Racing RB16B

Photo by: Sam Bloxham /

Mazepin praised F1's safety improvements after emerging unscathed from the heavy impact.

"I'm fine," said the Russian. "I took quite a big hit, especially on the left side of my upper body, and for sure will wake up sore tomorrow.

"But yeah, I'd say I'm very fortunate to be racing in this era because the work that Jean Todt has done together with the FIA made us be able to walk out of this today. And I'm not sure if it was same, let's say, 15 years ago.

"From what I saw, Charles didn't have anywhere to go, spun Sergio around. The place is so tight that when Sergio was sideways it took about 85% of the circuit. So George seeing what's happening took a precaution and then lifted or braked.

"And I was fighting with [Lance] Stroll and we were both going to go flat through that place. But unfortunately, there wasn't enough time to stop, because the speeds were over 200, and just was impossible to avoid George's back."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/haas-evaluating-bonus-scheme-idea-from-mazepin/6849596/
DATE: 2021

Mazepin, who owns the Uralkali company that is title sponsor of Haas, has offered to fund an incentive programme to help encourage staff to stay on board for next year.

Rather than change the terms of his sponsorship deal to help increase the team’s budget, he wants extra money to go direct to staff to help keep them motivated.

Mazepin’s son Nikita explained at the Saudi Arabian Grand Prix that the idea came about when he expressed some concern about quality staff leaving.

“I have told him [his father] that I'm very concerned about people leaving, good people leaving,” Mazepin told Motorsport.com.

“I know that different people had different thoughts in their head, but quite some of them were financially concerned. And I'm very fortunate and lucky that he [his father] has heard it.

“He's got an amazing track record of giving what he needs to his employees, which numbers over 45,000 in his companies, and he is a professional in it, not me.

“He came up with this idea totally voluntarily to not, let's say, throw money at people, as bad as it may sound, but to motivate people and give them an opportunity to achieve certain things and be rewarded for it.”

When asked by Motorsport.com for his thoughts on the plan, Steiner said he did not think there was any huge worry about Haas losing personnel because of the challenges imposed by an expanding calendar.

However, before going ahead and accepting Mazepin’s offer, he said Haas needed to check on potential implications regarding F1’s budget cap.

“We don't have people running away,” he said. “We have about 60 people which are with us from the beginning. At the end of the season sometimes every year a few people leave because they want to move on in their career. They want to move on from going to all the races, so it's not something unexpected.

“On the offer from Dmitry, we are looking in to how we can make it work with budget cap legally and all that stuff. Then we'll see when we get back to him.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/haas-bonus-scheme-idea-prompted-by-real-concern-says-mazepin/6845422/
DATE: 2021

A gruelling travel schedule with more regular triple-headers, allied to a 23-race calendar next year, has prompted a growing number of F1 regulars to look for job opportunities elsewhere.

Haas has not escaped losing a number of its staff who have decided against staying on for the long haul.

But with the American-owned squad needing as many good people on its books as possible as it bids to move off the bottom of the rankings next year, Mazepin wants to set up some kind of bonus scheme for those that commit to stay.

Speaking about why his father had done it,  said that he had voiced some worries about Haas personnel leaving, and where that would leave the team going forward.

“I have told him [his father] that I'm very concerned about people leaving, good people leaving,” Mazepin told Motorsport.com.

“I know that different people had different thoughts in their head, but quite some of them were financially concerned. And I'm very fortunate and lucky that he has heard it.

“He's got an amazing track record of giving what he needs to his employees, which numbers over 45,000 in his companies, and he is a professional in it, not me.

“He came up with this idea totally voluntarily to not, let's say, throw money at people, as bad as it may sound, but to motivate people and give them an opportunity to achieve certain things and be rewarded for it.

Nikita Mazepin, Haas F1, on the grid with his father Dmitry Mazepin

Photo by: Andy Hone /

“The most important thing about it is [that] it happened totally voluntarily. He doesn't get anything from it, apart from I think he's in a stage of his life where he wants to give things back because he's got enough success.

“He now really is concerned about the people that actually do the hard work, people that work in the mines, in his factories, and the real employees at the very, very low level in the teams.”

Mazepin said that the bonus scheme was only a suggestion at the moment, and that it would require Haas to not only accept it but also ensure that the team played its part in delivering staff what they needed to want to stay.

He added: “I'm not sure if it will happen, because it [the offer] actually has clauses of looking after the people and giving them a good experience. That needs to come from the team because he [Dmitry Mazepin] is only [a sponsor].”

While any ramping up of staff income would have to be included in F1’s budget cap regulations, Mazepin said Haas was so below the current limit that it would not cause an issue on that front.

“From what I know, we're way below the budget cap anyway, so it will get a little bit closer to it,” he said.

“And that goes towards people having a better life. And not only them, but their families having a better life, which is the most important thing to make it a good success.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mazepin-proposes-haas-f1-staff-incentive-scheme-for-2022/6819467/
DATE: 2021

The combination of a difficult 2021 campaign for Haas, allied to the increasing demands of a 23-race schedule next season, has left the team with a likely challenge of keeping its best personnel delivering to the maximum.

But with Mazepin, the father of driver Nikita, determined to do all he can to help, he has put forward a plan to encourage staff to remain on board and stay fully motivated.

While Uralkali will not be changing the terms of its sponsorship deal to increase funding for the team's overall budget, Mazepin thinks the new scheme is a good way to help the situation.

Speaking to Russian channel Match TV on Thursday, he said: "The existing contract is what we have, but for next year we are proposing an additional agreement, voluntarily, to incentivise staff members to stay, to be involved more and to understand that it is difficult to service the cars during 23 races and fly to 23 different countries.

"The human factor is very important here, and that's why we want to increase staff motivation together with the team. We as sponsors want to be part of the team."

Uralkali has a long-term contract in place with Haas, which has been secured on the back of the arrival of .

Although the 2021 campaign has been a difficult one for Haas, with the team having abandoned development of its car to focus entirely on its 2022 campaign, Dmitry Mazepin is not disheartened by the year.

"We are pleased," he said. "Firstly, we are grateful to the team that we found a mutual interest in entering into this kind of agreement. The team has been working hard, but we see big opportunities, which we can realise through joint efforts, to achieve a higher result next year."

Dmitry Mazepin, father of Nikita Mazepin, Haas F1

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

While Uralkali is closely associated with Nikita Mazepin's career, his father is clear that the company's ambitions in F1 are not locked in to the youngster.

Having been interested in purchasing the Force India squad back in 2018, Dmitry is clear that he remains open to the idea of buying a squad.

"We have big ambitions in motorsport and we had an unsuccessful attempt to buy a Formula 1 team," he said.

"It is still a possibility for us. It is not related to Nikita but is determined by our long-term plans. On the contrary, we want to expand our presence in F1.

"We have the Hitech team which competes in Formula 4, Formula 3 and Formula 2, and the real crown for this journey would be to own a Formula 1 team and to have the full racing deck."

Asked if its F1 ownership plans revolved around Haas or were not specific to one team at the moment, Mazepin said: "Not specific.

"Currently we are not in any negotiations because everyone is taking a time out to see how things unfold in 2022 in terms of which team is successful and which is not.

"If suddenly a small team becomes successful in 2022, then of course their value and attractiveness will be greater."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ferrari-junior-shwartzman-joins-haas-f1-for-abu-dhabi-rookie-test/6818779/
DATE: 2021

The 22-year-old Russian was current Haas driver  teammate at Prema Racing in F2 last season, finishing fourth in the championship with four wins, and is currently third in this year's standings.

The 2019 FIA F3 champion will take the wheel of the current Haas VF-21 at the rookie test, which will take place the week after the season-closing Abu Dhabi Grand Prix in December.

"First of all, I would like to thank , Scuderia  and the Ferrari Driver Academy for this great opportunity," said Shwartzman.

"This will be my first test with Haas and I'm really looking forward to getting to know a new team, environment and also to learn as much as possible from them.

"Having the chance to drive for another F1 team is just incredible and I can't wait to work with everyone."

Saint Petersburg native Shwartzman is no stranger to Formula 1 machinery, having had the opportunity to test a Ferrari F1 car at Fiorano last year as part of his Ferrari Driver Academy programme.

He also took part in the Abu Dhabi rookie test last year at the wheel of the 2020 Ferrari.

Robert Shwartzmann, Ferrari SF1000

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

"We're looking forward to testing with Robert at Yas Marina in December," added Haas team principal Gunther Steiner.

"He's obviously highly rated by Ferrari – having been part of their driver program since the end of 2017.

"His ability is clearly in evidence when you look at his performances over the last few seasons – most notably his rookie campaign in Formula 2 last year – competing against the likes of our own two drivers Schumacher and .

"We are pleased to be able to give Robert an outing in a Formula 1 car and we look forward to working with him in Abu Dhabi."

The single day rookie test will be run in conjunction with a two-day 18-inch Pirelli tyre test for the teams' regular race drivers.

Earlier Aston Martin announced its simulator driver Nick Yelloly would get a test run at Abu Dhabi, while  is hopeful its  recruit  will be released for the test to kick-start his stint with the Swiss team.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mazepin-to-miss-qatar-gp-fp2-due-to-haas-f1-chassis-change/6798593/
DATE: 2021

Haas revealed one hour before the start of FP2 at the Losail International Circuit that Mazepin had been ruled out of the session after the team discovered his chassis was damaged.

“ will not participate in FP2 as a result of a chassis change being required after FP1,” said a spokesman from the Haas team.

It was confirmed this was due to “damage sustained in FP1”.

Mazepin has previously struggled with the Haas chassis through his rookie F1 season with Haas, but was given a new one for the Belgian Grand Prix in August, after which he felt his pace “massively improved”.

But Mazepin is now set to revert to the previous chassis and keep it for the remainder of the Qatar Grand Prix weekend.

The added setback for Mazepin is that it means he will miss the only practice running of the weekend that takes place under the lights at the Losail track.

Both FP1 and FP3 take place in daytime, while FP2 set to start at 5pm local time - the same time as both qualifying and the race will begin.

Mazepin ended opening practice in Qatar in last place, completing just 16 laps and finishing eight-tenths of a second down on team-mate ’s lap time.

Nikita Mazepin, Haas VF-21, leaves the garage

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Mazepin is one of only two drivers on the grid to have previously raced at the Qatar track, but downplayed that it would give him much of an advantage during the press conference on Thursday.

“I think during a career or racing driver every session, at times you have certain advantages or disadvantages,” Mazepin said.

“So maybe for the first 10 laps it puts me in a good position, but everyone is so good around that I'm sure they will memorise the track just as quickly, and I will be doing that as well.”

Schumacher will now have to complete Haas’s preparations single-handed through FP2 before Mazepin returns to running in final practice on Saturday afternoon.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/pietro-fittipaldi-f1-haas-2022/6785721/
DATE: 2021

Brazilian driver Fittipaldi, 25, made his F1 race debut with the team in the Sakhir Grand Prix, replacing the injured Romain Grosjean following his horrendous fiery crash a week earlier. He finished 17th and 19th in his two starts, and set eighth-fastest lap in Abu Dhabi after a pitstop to cure an overheating issue.

The grandson of two-time world champion and Indy 500 winner Emerson Fittipaldi has been with Haas since 2018, following his title success in World Series Formula V8. Since then, he has raced sporadically in the IndyCar Series, European Le Mans Series, DTM and WEC.

“Pietro is a very good guy, a great driver and is now part of our family,” said Steiner. “Last year, when Romain had to sit out, he did a fantastic job without being in the car for almost a year. Pietro is one of us and hopefully he will continue with us.”

Pietro Fittipaldi, reserve driver, Haas F1

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Fittipaldi, who carries out simulator duties with Haas as well as test driving, is also keen to stay with the team, which has fielded F1 rookies Mick Schumacher and Nikita Mazepin this season – especially with the new regulations on the horizon.

“For me, it is exciting and different to be able to drive in a new era of Formula 1," said Fittipaldi. “If I get the chance to be in the car next season, it will be exciting.

“Everyone is saying it will be harder to drive, less aerodynamic and moving more. As a driver, you always want new challenges.

“I think I'm one of those who has driven the most different cars in the world – the only thing I haven't done is rallying or driving on ice! I’ve driven F1, NASCAR, Indy, Formula E, Porsche LMP1, Super Formula, DTM, Stock Car, GT... so adding the new era of Formula 1 would be really cool.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mazepin-explains-nightclub-situation-after-video-emerges-on-social-media/6770424/
DATE: 2021

In the days following Sunday's grand prix at the Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez, a video was posted to social media appearing to show Mazepin confronting bouncers during a night out.

But Mazepin explained on Thursday ahead of the Sao Paulo Grand Prix that he was clearing up a situation that saw one of his team members not be let in, and that it was quickly resolved with no-one getting kicked out of the nightclub.

"I think the situation from my side was really clear," Mazepin said. "Definitely nobody was kicked out. I was upset because one of my engineers was leaving.

"I invited everybody from the team to see me and one of the members wasn't let in, unfortunately.

"So, yeah, I cleared that up. It took about three or four minutes. And everybody was in, and actually it was a very good party. We stayed for quite a few hours."

boss Gunther Steiner said on Thursday that he was yet to see Mazepin and ask about the video, but that he had been made aware of it and he thought it was nothing more than a disagreement.

Nikita Mazepin, Haas F1, with Guenther Steiner, Team Principal, Haas F1

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

"This was more like a verbal argument about something," Steiner said.

"I haven't spoken with him yet because I haven't seen him. But I think it was more like he couldn't get access somewhere and just tried to make his point."

Mazepin sparked controversy last December  stories showing him groping a woman's chest, leading to condemnation from his Haas team, the FIA and F1. Haas dealt with the matter internally over the winter.

Asked if he thought drivers had a harder time now that everything could be filmed and posted on social media, Steiner said: "Absolutely.

"Everything what is done, whoever does it, is immediately filmed from somebody.

"And then Nikita, I think he has got a reputation, and it's even [more] played up I would say. So it isn't made any easier for him."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/steiner-f1-reserve-drives-show-hulkenberg-will-be-straight-on-it/10408797/
DATE: 2022

Hulkenberg will return to F1 after three seasons away, having left Renault at the end of the 2019 season, to replace  at the American squad.

But while the 35-year-old German always maintained he was not desperate to return, he kept his foot in the door and deputised on five occasions over the last three seasons for drivers hit by COVID-19.

In 2020 Hulkenberg made three appearances with Racing Point to replace  and .

Although he failed to make the start in the British Grand Prix, he impressed by finishing in the top eight in both the 70th Anniversary Grand Prix at Silverstone and the Nurburgring's Eifel Grand Prix.

This year he contested the first two rounds at Bahrain and Saudi Arabia instead of  at the same team, now racing as Aston Martin.

Haas team principal Steiner says those cameos helped convince him that Hulkenberg will not be too rusty when he slots into the team.

"We looked at that one as well, but when he came in, when he replaced drivers in the last years, he was pretty on the ball straight away," Steiner replied when asked by Motorsport.com about whether he has any concerns over a lack of race sharpness.

Nico Hulkenberg, Aston Martin AMR22

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

In Abu Dhabi Hulkenberg took part in the post-season test for Haas on the Tuesday, which helped him get up to speed with the team and with the physical demands of racing in F1.

"We’ve also got pre-season testing in Bahrain. I think he will be straight on it," Steiner added.

"Physically, these F1 cars are quite demanding, and it will take him some time to get used to it because the only way you train your muscles is driving the cars.

"We cross that bridge next year, but he’s pretty fit.

"I think we obviously had that question as well: 'Is he straight on the ball when he comes back after being out?'

"But then you look at the results he did when he just jumped in last minute, he was pretty good."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/hulkenberg-contacted-haas-in-summer-after-f1-interest-crept-back/10403328/
DATE: 2022

Haas announced last Thursday that it had signed Hulkenberg for next year as Kevin Magnussen's teammate, replacing  after two seasons.

It marks Hulkenberg's full-time return to F1 after three years away, the German having only made five stand-in appearances at races since losing his Renault seat at the end of 2019. He spent 2022 working as Aston Martin's reserve driver, deputising for  in Bahrain and Saudi Arabia.

Hulkenberg revealed that he called Haas team boss Gunther Steiner over the summer to say he would be interested in a seat after finding his interest in returning to F1 had grown.

"Obviously [after] '19 I was out and I was happy, I had some distance and some breather from it," said Hulkenberg.

"In 2021, nothing much happened, and even at the beginning of this year, I wasn't stressing or thinking about it too much.

"But then coming towards the summer, it somehow grew in me again. When I came and visited races, and saw the action and the excitement, I had the desire to come back.

"And then the discussions started."

Hulkenberg said that talks then got "more concrete and serious" over the last month as Haas weighed up its driver options, before ruling out retaining Schumacher or signing . The deal with Hulkenberg was eventually signed last Wednesday.

Prior to his comeback interest growing again, Hulkenberg explained that he "wasn't too stressed" about returning to F1 full-time as he was "enjoying the life out of the driving seat."

Mick Schumacher, Haas VF-22, Nico Hulkenberg, Aston Martin AMR22, Lance Stroll, Aston Martin AMR22

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

"It's much more relaxed, there's other benefits, but then it sort of crept back - the desire to come back on the grid, to go racing, to kick ass, to be in the driving seat. So there was no fear."

Hulkenberg will drive a Haas car for the first time on Tuesday in Abu Dhabi when he takes part in the post-season test before making his race debut for the team in Bahrain next March.

Although he has experience of the 2022 cars from the first two races of the year and in tyre testing since then, Hulkenberg thought it would take "a couple of runs to get up to speed, familiarise with the car and work from there."

He added: "The most important thing for tomorrow is just for me to get my head around F1 and especially this Haas car, to understand it, as it's a bit of a headstart for next year.

"Three days' pre-season testing is not a lot before the first event. So that's just for me a little teaser, to get a feel for this car and how the systems work, driver fit stuff, a lot of basics as well that you can already clear and get out of the way."

"You never know until it's signed, but I think the last month, it got more and more concrete and serious, and I was getting more optimistic and confident that we can agree a deal," Hulkenberg explained on Monday at the Yas Marina Circuit.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/abu-dhabi-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026193/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/schumacher-humbling-mercedes-reserve-role/10402715/
DATE: 2022

Schumacher found out this week he would not be racing in F1 next year after Haas opted not to renew his contract, instead  to partner Kevin Magnussen.

With all remaining seats on the F1 grid now taken, Schumacher has been left evaluating other options for 2023 such as a potential reserve role.

Wolff previously said he would look to talk to Schumacher about a position only if he lost his Haas seat, believing he deserved to keep his place on the grid.

"Mercedes is an awesome brand and what they've achieved in Formula 1 is incredible,” said Schumacher after qualifying in Abu Dhabi on Saturday.

“For sure I am looking at my options, and Mercedes is a part of it.”

Earlier in the day, Wolff reiterated his interest in signing Schumacher, noting the strong ties between the Schumacher family and Mercedes. Mick’s father, Michael, returned to F1 with Mercedes in 2010 after three years away, and also started out racing sportscars for the German manufacturer.

“Mick is someone that has always been close to our heart because of Michael or the whole Schumacher family,” said Wolff.

“Ralf was in a DTM for a long time for us, his son races Mercedes in GTs, and [Mick is] an intelligent, well-mannered young man. He’s been very successful in junior formulas.

“We believe that we can look after him if the situation were to happen and with someone that just fits the team, but we haven't really put pen to paper. We haven't really come anywhere close to any terms.

“I'm seeing it that openly because I think he just fits and now we need to make it happen, if he wants to, Sabine [Kehm, Schumacher’s manager] wants to and then we see where that goes to.”

Toto Wolff, Team Principal and CEO, Mercedes AMG

Photo by: Michael Potts /

Asked about the family significance at Mercedes in light of Wolff’s comments, Schumacher said: “My dad did the switch from Ferrari to Mercedes at the time. I don't see a right reason why not [the same] right now.

“Again, as I said earlier this week, I have time now so I will consider all the options that I have to then hopefully make the right decision for me.

“But it's definitely very humbling to hear what Mercedes and especially Toto says about me.”

Mercedes requires a new reserve driver for 2023 as its current back-ups, Nyck de Vries and Stoffel Vandoorne, are both leaving at the end of the season. De Vries will join AlphaTauri and race full-time in F1 next year, while Vandoorne will become Aston Martin’s reserve driver.

Mercedes also missed out on signing outgoing McLaren driver Daniel Ricciardo in a reserve role after , with the.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/magnussen-adamant-schumacher-can-find-his-way-back-to-f1/10401499/
DATE: 2022

Haas announced on the eve of this weekend's Abu Dhabi Grand Prix that it would not be retaining Schumacher for the 2023 season. Instead, it has signed veteran  to partner Magnussen.

While Schumacher has faced some difficult moments during his two seasons with Haas, Magnussen reckons that the young German ultimately did a good job and has the qualities needed for this not to be the end of his F1 career.

Asked for his thoughts on the Haas driver decision, Magnussen said: "It's a double-sided thing, right? On one hand, it's exciting getting someone like Nico in with all his experience and capabilities.

"And, on the other hand, I feel bad for Mick, because I know how that feels. And I've been in that situation myself.

"I think he's done a good job this year, I like him as a person as well. It's easy to feel bad for him.

"F1 is tough, but it's also possible to make it back. I've done that twice. I hope he can keep fighting and try to make it back on the grid."

Mick Schumacher, Haas VF-22

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Magnussen says his experience of those two spells on the sidelines – having been dropped by  at the end of his debut 2014 campaign, then losing his seat at Haas for 2021 and making it back to the grid both times – shows why Schumacher should keep the faith despite the disappointment he may be feeling now.

"I certainly know what it's like, in his position right now," he said. "But I also feel that when I'm patting him on the shoulder saying, 'Keep at it', then it also has some weight.

"I've come back twice to the sport. I've shown that nobody knows what is going to happen; you can never say never in the sport. So you need to hang in there.

"I like Mick and I think he deserves a spot on the grid. All I can say is, I hope the best for him and I believe that there is a way back to F1 for him."

While Magnussen and future teammate Hulkenberg are most famously known for a post-race moment in front of the TV cameras at the 2017 Hungarian Grand Prix, the Dane senses there being no problem in them working together.

"Everyone talks about our little thing in Hungary back in 2017," he said. "Of course, that's what everyone brings up.

"But actually, I have a lot of respect for him. And I've said that even before he was going to join our team.

"I don't know him as a person yet. I'm going to get to know him next year, and I'm looking forward to that. I think he's going to be a great asset for the team."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/magnussen-reveals-crazy-trek-back-to-pits-after-brazilian-gp/10401195/
DATE: 2022

The Dane had been spun out of last weekend’s Interlagos race by  on the opening lap, with his damaged Haas left stranded by the side of the track.

And while the medical car stopped to check on him and his  rival, there was only enough space to take one of them back to the garages – and Ricciardo had quickly jumped in. That left Magnussen alone out on the track with no alternative way of getting back to the paddock.

After waiting for the race to finish, Magnussen said still nobody came to get him – so he had to make his own way back, which meant walking through the general spectator areas.

“It was crazy,” he said when asked by Motorsport.com about the events. “I don't know what went on, but it was the most dangerous thing I did all weekend, despite all the driving!

“For whatever reason, I didn't catch a ride back to the pits. Daniel took me out of the race and then jumped in the safety car and took my ride back to the pits. And then I was left at the side of the track the whole race. I can survive that, that's okay.

“Then, I've tried to speak to the marshals, but they didn't speak a word of English, none at all. After the race, I was kind of waiting for someone to come and pick me up or something, and the marshals started leaving. And then I was like, what do I do?”

Daniel Ricciardo, McLaren MCL36, Kevin Magnussen, Haas VF-22, crash out

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Magnussen explained that he walked nearby to try to find a route back to the paddock area but got stuck at a fence, before some other marshals came to help him.

“I ended up by a fence that I couldn't really see a way around,” he said. “Of course, I could have walked the whole track and go around to the start finish, but there were all the fans.

“Then some of the marshals realised that I was in trouble and cut a hole in the fence and lifted me through, which was kind of sketchy.

“The marshals took good care of me [among the fans] but it could have been bad, I guess. I am glad I wasn't  at Zandvoort. That would have been really sketchy!”

Asked if Brazilian race organisers had given him an explanation about what happened, Magnussen said: “They apologised and stuff, but I mean, it's a pretty weird situation.

“Just come and pick me up: how hard can it be? It was surreal. I hope that doesn't happen again.”

While Magnussen’s Brazilian Grand Prix ended in disappointment after his first lap exit, he says that it did not put a dampener on the joy he still takes from his shock pole for Saturday's sprint race.

“It was a very proud moment for us to get pole position for such a little small, privately-owned team, like Haas is,” he said. “It was really a proud moment. And I think it really lifted everyone up. It has showed that anything is possible in this sport.

“Although often it seems like it is impossible, it isn't. Moments like this is what makes it all worthwhile.”

He added that he can still see the positivity it has injected in Haas team members after a fairly tough few seasons.

“I think everyone loved it,” he said. “It was a real proud moment for the team.

“I can see everyone: when they're walking down the paddock, they look a little bigger, a little taller. And that's great.

“It's great to see and it's a memory that we will have in common always. And going into the end of the season like this, going into a winter with a huge high like that, it's worth a lot. So I'm really happy about that.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/steiner-even-an-f1-pole-position-would-not-have-saved-schumacher/10400999/
DATE: 2022

The team announced on Thursday that Schumacher will not be retained for next season, and will be replaced by .

Steiner insisted the final decision was taken recently, with Schumacher only informed on Wednesday that he would not be staying, and Hulkenberg signing his contract the same day.

Asked by Motorsport.com if the situation might be different had Schumacher, and not teammate taken pole at Interlagos last weekend, Steiner suggested even that kind of performance would not have been enough.

"Nothing would have changed," he said. "Because you cannot make this decision on an emotional one race or one qualifying result, that would be wrong, it could be wrong both ways."

Steiner acknowledged that Schumacher's run of crashes earlier in the year didn't help his cause, but stressed that there was a bigger picture.

"It's part of it, but you cannot just say, 'oh he crashed', which obviously wasn't good," he said.

"I'm not trying to make it good now, but then you can see how much influence his very good results have had. It's this balance you need to find. One thing is very good, when he finished in Austria and Silverstone, it was very good results.

"And then you had the bad things, the crashes. So it's a mix of it. But it was not one event as much as it looks like triggered this, it's a combination of things and the biggest thing is going forward we just want to build up the team again."

He added: "Mick improved a lot during the season. You all see it, I don't have to tell you that one.

Guenther Steiner, Team Principal, Haas F1

Photo by: Andy Hone /

"Therefore it took us so long, we didn't take this decision as people think already before the summer, it took us this long to decide what is the best for the team. He drove good in some races."

Asked what Schumacher was missing, Steiner said: "I think the experience of multi-years in F1, and never having been with another team other than us.

"What Nico brings in, he's been with three or four teams before, so he has the experience and experience takes time to make, and at the moment, we don't have time because we want to move forward. We don't want to be where we are now, we want to be better."

Steiner said it was hard to say if Schumacher had failed to match expectations.

"It's difficult to answer that one, because what is the expectation? Maybe we see things in the team now that we need to fix in the team where we can do better with somebody else, take aside his performance and so on. It's more like we need to bring the team up, not only the driver.

"It's not Mick's fault that we are where we are. We have ourselves to blame, but we need to come up again and there is a shorter way by taking a guy with a lot of experience that has done this in multiple teams which were in similar positions to we are now."

Asked if the 23-year-old deserved to find a seat elsewhere, Steiner said: "I cannot judge if he deserves it or not. I think there is no seat next year, except if at  something very strange happens this weekend.

"So deserving or not, that who am I to judge that one? I think we all have to work for something, nobody's given anything for free. I have no seats. I don't like to advise my colleagues, the other team principals, who deserve what. I don't want to be in that position."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/nico-hulkenberg-comeback-haas-2023/10400888/
DATE: 2022

The 35-year-old will partner  and replace fellow German , .

Hulkenberg will have an opportunity to sample this year’s car in the Pirelli test in Abu Dhabi on Tuesday, with reserve driver and rookie Pietro Fittipaldi driving the team's other machine.

Hulkenberg’s name first emerged as a potential candidate for Haas back in September, with  – the favoured choice of engine partner  – his main rival for the job.

Team boss Gunther Steiner has always insisted that Ferrari could only advise on drivers, and a crash in FP1 in Austin ended any lingering hopes that Giovinazzi may have had.

The decision to replace Schumacher with Hulkenberg reflects a remarkable change in strategy by the team, which ran two rookies in 2021 and will now head into next season with two drivers who will have over 320 Grands Prix starts between them.

Steiner made it clear that Hulkenberg's experience was key to him getting the nod and returning to F1 full-time after three years out.

“I’m naturally very pleased to be welcoming  back to a full-time racing role in F1,” Steiner said.

“The experience and knowledge base Nico brings to the team is clear to see – with nearly 200 career starts in F1 – and a reputation as being a great qualifier and a solid, reliable racer.

“These are attributes, which when you pair them together with Kevin Magnussen’s experience, gives us a very credible and well-seasoned driver line-up which we believe will help push the team onwards up the grid.

“That’s obviously the goal and it was that ambition that has prompted Nico’s return to F1 – he shares our vision and can be a key player together with the rest of the team in building on the foundations we’ve laid this year with our return to the points battle.”

Nico Hulkenberg, Aston Martin

Photo by: Jerry Andre /

Hulkenberg said: "I feel like I never really left Formula 1. I’m excited to have the opportunity to do what I love the most again and want to thank Gene Haas and Gunther Steiner for their trust.

"We have work ahead of us to be able to compete with all the other teams in the midfield, and I cannot wait to join that battle again.”

Hulkenberg has a stellar junior CV, having led Germany to the 2006-7 A1 GP title before winning the European F3 championship in 2008 and the GP2 crown in consecutive years.

He made his F1 debut with  in 2010, taking pole at Interlagos, before being dropped to make way for the well-sponsored  in 2011. He thus spent that season as Force India’s reserve before racing for the Silverstone team in 2012.

After a single year with Sauber in 2013 he returned to the Force India camp in 2014-16 and also found the time to win the Le Mans 24 Hours with Porsche in 2015.

He then enjoyed three years with Renault from 2017, finishing a career high seventh in the standings in 2018, but lost his seat to  at the end of 2019 and has not raced full-time since, instead taking up reserve role with Racing Point and Aston Martin.

Hulkenberg appeared as a stand-in driver at Racing Point three times in 2020. He failed to start at the British GP, and then qualified a surprise third at the 70th Anniversary race the following weekend. He scored solid points with seventh in the race, which he followed up with eighth at the Nurburgring.

In October 2021 he had an IndyCar test with Arrow  SP, but he made it clear that he had no interest in racing in the series.

This year he was again called upon once again as a reserve driver by Aston Martin, starting with the first two races of the year in Bahrain and Saudi Arabia when  was ruled out due to COVID-19.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/haas-f1-confirms-schumacher-exit-at-end-of-2022-season/10400879/
DATE: 2022

News of Schumacher’s departure comes as no surprise as sources first suggested several months ago that he would not be retained by the team, and in addition was set to be dropped from Ferrari’s young driver programme.

Team boss Gunther Steiner continued to insist that no decision had been made, and that Schumacher remained in the frame for possible retention.

But in recent weeks, momentum has been building around Nico Hulkenberg, who as previously reported is .

“I would like to thank Mick Schumacher for his contribution to the team over the past couple of years,” said Steiner in a statement issued by Haas on Thursday morning.

“Mick’s pedigree in the junior categories was well known and he has continued to grow and develop as a driver in his time with Haas F1 Team – culminating in his first F1 points-scoring successes earlier this season.

"While choosing to go in separate directions for the future the entire team wishes Mick well for the next steps in his career path and beyond.”

Mick Schumacher, Haas VF-22, Pierre Gasly, AlphaTauri AT03

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

The decision leaves Schumacher looking for a new role in 2023, with the only potential F1 race seat remaining at Williams - although that will only become an option should Logan Sergeant have a disastrous final Formula 2 weekend in Abu Dhabi and fail to secure his superlicence.

Schumacher will be an obvious candidate for a reserve drive, potentially with multiple teams, and he has already been linked with Mercedes.

In the end, a series of expensive crashes over Schumacher's two years with Haas appears to have affected the 23-year-old’s standing within the team.

He wasn’t able to achieve much with an undeveloped car alongside fellow rookie Nikita Mazepin in 2021, but this year he had a much more competitive machine.

While teammate Kevin Magnussen scored well with the car when it was particularly competitive in the early races, Schumacher failed to do so. Huge crashes in qualifying in Saudi Arabia and in the race in Monaco did not help his cause, while he also lost a points finish following a late collision with Sebastian Vettel in Miami.

He finally scored his first F1 points with eighth in the British Grand Prix followed by sixth in Austria, finishing ahead of Magnussen on both occasions.

But Schumacher has failed to make the top 10 since, and he has been outscored 25 to 12 by Magnussen over the course of the season.

Although it’s apparent that the decision had already been made, he suffered a big blow when he was only 20th in Interlagos qualifying last weekend, and Magnussen took pole.

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sao-paulo-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026150/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/haas-shock-brazilian-gp-pole-joy-f1-underdogs-provide/10398425/
DATE: 2022

With both championships long settled and the end of an intense season to date within sight, Brazil was hardly being hyped up as being a big weekend for Formula 1.

In fact, in the lead-up to the start of qualifying, I was discussing with some friends how this season feels like it has dragged on, particularly since  clinched his second title and made the remaining rounds dead rubbers. Negative? Yes. But mentally, many within F1 are already thinking of the winter break that is less than two weeks away.

But then along came  and Haas to remind us of the magic that F1 can conjure up when you least expect it, and why underdogs in both the series and in wider sport matter so, so much.

Interlagos has a funny habit of throwing up shock results like this. Think of 's victory amid the chaos of 2003,  sticking his  on pole in the damp as a rookie in 2010, or 's redemptive podium in 2019. All three were proper feel-good results - and now we have another to add to the collection.

Magnussen had looked punchy through the first two stages of qualifying en route to Q3. He even noted the small gaps to the frontrunners while sat waiting for the session to begin. "I was looking at the times after Q2, and thinking maybe this could be my smallest margin to pole position in my career," he said after the session. "And I was right!"

The stars naturally had to align for Magnussen - getting to the head of the queue; Max Verstappen making his mistake;  going off when he did and the red flag coming out - but what followed was a little over 10 minutes of F1 theatre that will live long in the memory.

The Haas garage being at the end of pitlane became a key factor in Magnussen grabbing pole

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

"You're kidding…" came Magnussen's reply when he was told that he was P1 while circulating back to the pits under the red flag, the realisation of what might be about to happen kicking in. "I've never, ever felt like this in my life guys." He was quick to warn: "Don't celebrate yet!" There was still time on the clock, and the rain was yet to fully arrive.

"It just felt scary, because there was still time left, eight minutes," Magnussen explained after the session. "I couldn't really see how much it had been raining when I got back in the garage. If the session restarts, is the track going to be good enough for people to improve? Because we know we're not the fastest car.

"I just didn't want to jinx it. I was superstitious in the car, thinking I couldn't celebrate until it's there."

And so came the wait. The session went back to green with eight minutes left on the clock, the sky darkening and the tension building in the Haas garage. Barring something unfathomable, pole would surely belong to Magnussen. But the team members could only look nervously at the screens, while Magnussen remained sat in the cockpit in case he had to go out again.

An exploratory lap by  on intermediates realistically put the writing on the wall for any chance of beating the pole time. Magnussen pulled a funny face for the TV camera in his garage and began to bob his head around, but still there was no huge celebration.

That came with two minutes to go when, at last, there wasn't time for anyone else to get a lap in. The Haas crew broke into wild celebrations, limbs everywhere, a couple reaching to Magnussen's car to lift off his headrest and help him out of the car. He was an F1 polesitter.

Magnussen punched the air furiously, the kind of celebration that we see so often in parc ferme, making it odd to watch it unfold within the cramped Haas garage, lights and screens around him. But if anything, it made it more personal; more fitting for what Haas has achieved.

Wild celebrations erupted in the Haas garage as Magnussen's pole was confirmed

Photo by: Sam Bloxham /

This is a small team that has fought to be part of the establishment since joining the grid in 2016, proving that it is possible to join the grid and make it work successfully. It has dealt with uncertainty and unstable title sponsors, handled teammate clashes that left doors getting 'foksmashed', to borrow a term now part of F1's lexicon coined by Gunther Steiner in Drive to Survive, and breaking its status as the new kid on the block.

Only nine months ago, it had to deal with the fallout of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Uralkali's links to the country's president Vladimir Putin and what that meant for its future, only to turn then to the past by bringing Magnussen back - and now it has a pole position.

The rule change for this year might have brought F1's midfield closer together, but of the 60 podium finishes available in the first 20 races, 59 of them have gone to one of the 'big three' teams, the exception being 's third-place finish at Imola.

We know the overhaul of the technical regulations combined with the budget cap properly kicking in means it will take time for things to even out, giving more chance to the smaller operations to compete. But this year has still largely felt like a lockout for the rest of the field, lacking the shocks provided by  in Hungary or Pierre Gasly at Monza in the last two years.

Friday went some way to changing that. It may not be a race win, and Magnussen may not even start up the order for Sunday's race given the sprint weekend format. But it is still a wonderful reminder of why the underdogs in F1 matter so much, giving the series the kind of heart and shock we so often take for granted.

To borrow another Steiner-ism: Haas looked like a bunch of f****** legends on Friday. What a lovely way to shake off any late-season lethargy and get us excited for the rest of the Interlagos weekend.

Magnussen couldn't hide his emotions at his maiden F1 pole

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/steiner-magnussens-brazil-f1-pole-wasnt-down-to-luck/10398327/
DATE: 2022

Magnussen scored the first pole position of his F1 career at Interlagos on Friday after making the most of his track position advantage at the start of Q3 in damp conditions.

Magnussen’s early lap time put him on provisional pole, two tenths of a second clear of Red Bull’s , after getting to the front of the queue to exit the pits before the expected rain hit the track.

A red flag following ’s spin into the gravel meant that by the time the session resumed, the rain had intensified and meant no one could beat Magnussen’s effort.

It sparked wild celebrations for Magnussen and Haas, the team celebrating its first pole since joining the F1 grid back in 2016.

Haas team principal Steiner said on Sky Sports after qualifying that it ranked “number one” among his career moments, saying he had been “scared to dream” of such an achievement.

“We are trying hard, the whole team has been trying hard for seven years, and then circumstances let us pull this one off,” said Steiner.

“But I think it was not luck. It was well deserved, from the driver, from the team being on the right tyres at the right time, Kevin putting a lap down when it was needed.

“You need to go out there, he was first out there. You can say yeah, he had an advantage, but [as] a disadvantage, he had nobody to gauge with. He was on his own. He put a lap down, and it stuck.

“When it rains soup, you need to have a spoon! And we had a spoon ready today!”

Kevin Magnussen, Haas F1 Team, receives his Pirelli Pole Position award from Felipe Massa

Photo by: Sam Bloxham /

Steiner said Magnussen put “just a perfect lap down” in the conditions on slick tyres, having known it was key to get into the pit lane early before the session went green.

“We just can do what we can do,” said Steiner. “I think the other cars that are only 10, 15, 20 seconds behind us, they couldn’t do what he did.

“A credit to him, he was given the opportunity and he took it.”

The result comes on Magnussen’s 100th grand prix weekend for Haas, completing a dramatic turnaround since the start of the year when he was planning to race in sportscars, only to be drafted in as a replacement for  on the eve of the new season.

“He deserves a lot, the whole team deserves it,” Steiner added.

“We always work hard, we never give up, we keep on fighting, and you will always have naysayers. But welcome to our pole position, naysayers!”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-reserve-drivers-all-teams-backup-2023/10437681/
DATE: 2023

Formula 1 teams are well underway preparing for the forthcoming 2025 campaign, which will consist of 24 grands prix beginning in Melbourne on the 14-16 March.

The grid is set and all but two teams -  and Aston Martin - have changed their driver line-up, meaning this year will have a new look.

But it is not just the full-time competitors that play a crucial role, as a team’s back-up driver does as well.

Reserve drivers act on standby during grand prix weekends and may contest one should a team’s regular driver be unable to. This happened at the 2024 Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, for example, as .

F1 teams also employ simulator drivers, who test changes made to the car so that everybody can gain a greater understanding of the machine.

So, who are the drivers supporting their team behind the scenes for 2025?

Liam Lawson served as Red Bull’s reserve driver at the start of the 2024 season, but then .

. This means Red Bull is currently without an official reserve driver, though Lawson’s former team-mate Yuki Tsunoda is expected to step into the role.

Meanwhile, Rudy van Buren will continue as Red Bull’s simulator test and development driver after joining in 2023.

Rudy van Buren, Red Bull F1 Simulator Test and Development Driver

Photo: Red Bull Racing

, but in a reserve driver capacity having been ’s team-mate from 2017 to 2021. The 10-time grand prix winner left for  - now  - having been replaced by George Russell, who was previously at  after graduating to F1 as a Mercedes junior.

But the Swiss outfit opted for an all-new line-up this year ahead of its Audi takeover in 2026, leaving Bottas without a drive. So, in December 2024 Mercedes announced that the Finn was back with the Silver Arrows replacing former reserve Mick Schumacher, who is part of Alpine's Hypercar programme.

Sharing the role with Bottas is the 2023 F2 championship runner-up Frederik Vesti, who started the position last year having become a Mercedes junior in 2021.

, having been part of its academy between 2015 and 2018. He initially left to become Renault’s development driver in 2019 before making his F1 debut with Alfa Romeo in 2022 but, like Bottas, he was dropped by the Hinwil-based outfit for this year.

He will work alongside , who was Zhou's predecessor at Alfa Romeo. The Italian became Ferrari’s reserve driver in 2022 and Giovinazzi also competes for the historic brand in the World Endurance Championship, where he won the 2023 Le Mans 24 Hours.

Regarding Ferrari’s development drivers, that includes Arthur Leclerc who joined in 2024. He is the younger brother of full-time Ferrari driver  and is joined by  and Davide Rigon.

Zhou Guanyu, Ferrari reserve driver

McLaren is yet to announce who its reserve drivers for 2025 are, with previous incumbent . But Arrow McLaren IndyCar driver Pato O’Ward has previously contested F1 practice sessions for the Woking-based team, so it is likely he will continue his commitments.

McLaren also employs , who spends a lot of time in the team’s simulator where he works closely with the engineers and regular drivers.

Aston Martin has retained Felipe Drugovich and  as its reserve drivers for 2025. Previously the team was able to call on the reserves of engine partner Mercedes in case of an emergency but in more recent years, Aston Martin has introduced its own reserve drivers.

While Vandoorne joined from Mercedes in November 2022, Drugovich has graduated from the Aston Martin driver development programme and the 2022 F2 champion has worked with the squad since 2023.

Felipe Drugovich, Aston Martin F1 Team

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Jack Doohan will contest his first, full campaign in F1 this year after serving as Alpine’s reserve driver in 2024 before replacing  at the Abu Dhabi season finale.

As a result, Alpine has announced Paul Aron, Ryo Hirakawa and Franco Colapinto as its reserve drivers for 2025.

Aron had a stellar F2 campaign last year, finishing third to champion Gabriel Bortoleto and Isack Hadjar, while Hirakawa has joined from McLaren where he held a similar role.

There is more hype around Colapinto though, who made his - relatively unexpected - F1 debut in Monza 2024 having replaced Logan Sargeant at . He impressed immediately finishing 12th before taking points at his second grand prix in Azerbaijan with eighth.

But Williams had already announced  as ’s team-mate for 2025, so there was no full-time seat for Colapinto. As a result, , where a spot may soon open up for the young Argentine given Doohan’s unsecure future.

Williams does not currently employ its own reserve driver, as previous incumbent Colapinto has left for the same role at Alpine after impressing for the British squad in his nine-round stint last year.

Jamie Chadwick, meanwhile, serves as its development driver after joining Williams in 2019 which is the year she clinched her first of three W Series titles.

Jamie Chadwick, Williams

Hadjar served as Racing Bull’s reserve driver last year, when it was known as . But following Lawson’s promotion, Hadjar will partner Tsunoda for his rookie season leaving Racing Bulls currently without an official reserve driver.

Considering its close ties with Red Bull though, the Faenza-based squad can call on whomever is in the Red Bull pool.

Zane Maloney and Theo Pourchaire have left the Sauber set-up since acting as reserve drivers last year. The Swiss outfit is yet to confirm who will support its all-new line-up of  and Bortoleto before the squad morphs into the Audi works team in 2026.

Haas is also yet to announce its reserve driver for 2025 having promoted previous incumbent Bearman to a full-time seat at the American squad. One option could be Pietro Fittipaldi though, as the grandson of double world champion Emerson joined the team in 2019 and in that time has started two races due to ’s crash at the 2020 Bahrain Grand Prix.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-tech-review-haas-placed-last/10561130/
DATE: 2023

Haas F1 Team VF-23, front end plate

was among a handful of teams to include a blade style winglet at the start of the season, which was mounted on the endplate, above the last elements of the front wing. Combining with those elements the winglet helps to improve the outwash generated by the front wing.

Haas F1 Team VF-23 technical detail

The VF-23’s engine cover features a raised shark fin allowing more cooling outlets to be deployed on the spine of the lower deck.

Haas VF-23 technical detail

A close up of the intricate mirror housing design employed by Haas, which not only incorporated a slat-like surround but also a pair of vortex generators on the bottom of the mirror housing's main body.

Haas F1 Team VF-23 technical detail

Haas employed a bi-plane style beam wing arrangement at the Australian Grand Prix

Haas F1 Team VF-23 rear wing

In order to cater for the high-speed demands of the Baku street circuit, Haas modified the rear wing, with a large section of the upper flap’s trailing edge trimmed away.

Haas F1 Team VF-23 rear detail

The lower downforce rear wing was also paired with just a single element beam wing arrangement in Azerbaijan.

Haas VF-23 floor detail

Top-down overview of the rear portion of the floor on the VF-23 with its cutout and the underfloor tab winglet.

Haas VF-23 front wing detail

A close up of the VF-23’s front wing which sported slot gap separator brackets with more of an aerodynamic influence from the Monaco Grand Prix onwards.

Haas VF-23 rear detail

A new rear wing design arrived at the Canadian Grand Prix, complete with just a central mounting pillar, rather than the twin pillar arrangement used in races prior. Also note the introduction of the teardrop-shaped DRS flap pivots, first seen on the .

A close up of the cooling gills employed within the bathtub-like sculpting of the sidepod.

A close up of the floor’s two-tier leading edge and edge wing, with a Kiel probe array also mounted on its side as the team captures some data during practice.

Haas VF-23 technical detail

A great view of the rear wing showing just the lower element of the beam wing being utilised and a blanking plate used where the upper element would normally be situated.

Haas VF-23 technical detail

A look at the nosecone without the front wing and vanity panel installed.

Haas VF-23 bodywork detail, United States GP

Haas introduced a significant update package at the United States Grand Prix, as it became the last team on the grid to switch to a variation of the downwash ramp style arrangement.

Haas VF-23 technical detail

A look at the new sidepod and engine cover bodywork from over the shoulder of the rear wing.

A close up of the large cooling gills found on the side of the new engine cover.

Here’s the list of the components Haas listed as having changed in the car presentation document prior to each race.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/hulkenberg-haas-weakness-disguised-by-f1-rivals-early-struggles/10554015/
DATE: 2023

Haas scored all but one of its 12 points in the first five races of the year, with a best of seventh place earned by Hulkenberg in the high-attrition Australian GP.

The German said that once rivals began to develop their cars Haas slipped back and its issues – notably with overheating tyres in races – became more obvious.

"Obviously, it was a process, and signs were there early in the season," said Hulkenberg when asked by Motorsport.com about the team’s frustrating year. "But we got away with it early in the season because other people also were struggling more.

"And then once they cleaned up and then brought some real developments, that's when we really started to pay the penalty.

"The last or the second half of the season has been really tough. I think there was only an opportunity to score a point or two for me in Singapore, which we missed by the wrong strategy call.

"Apart from that we just never had the pace to do it. Even when there were a lot of cars dropping out, we were just too far away from it. So of course that's not great. That's why we need to do better."

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Nico Hulkenberg, Haas VF-23

Hulkenberg admitted that splitting the car specs in Las Vegas and Abu Dhabi, with him in the older car and the  the new version, highlighted the lack of successful development.

"I don't think there's a huge difference between them," he said. "Minor differences. Last weekend [in Las Vegas], I felt actually the new package had an edge over the old package on a low downforce configuration.

"This weekend, obviously I didn't do the Friday, but from Saturday, I felt quite okay. Kevin didn't feel so happy. I mean, both are similar.

"But that's in itself obviously is not good enough. An update is supposed to be better, and fix some of your issues. And unfortunately, that didn't happen. So, we need to try and do better there next year."

He added: "We just need to pick up our feet, and do a better job, we need to work hard, because we want to do better.

"I want us to do better ultimately, and I think everyone in the team wants to do better. So we just have to try and come up with better solutions."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/hulkenberg-lack-of-haas-f1-team-progress-disappointing-and-upsetting/10551925/
DATE: 2023

The German says his pace with the older-spec VF-23 relative to ’s upgraded model in qualifying for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix confirms that the team has been “overtaken and out-developed” by rivals.

Haas introduced a major new package at the United States GP and, after inconclusive results, agreed to allow the two drivers to follow their personal preferences for the last two races of the season, with Hulkenberg preferring the original package and team-mate Magnussen the updated version.

In Abu Dhabi, the German has been clearly ahead, taking eighth, ninth and eighth places across the three qualifying sessions, despite handing his car to Oliver Bearman for FP1 and missing most of FP2 after a crash. In contrast, Magnussen could manage only 17th and a Q1 exit with the newer spec.

The team has fallen to 10th and last in the constructors' standings and currently lies four points behind .

"I think it just confirms my impression that the updated car didn't really give a significant step,” said Hulkenberg of the gap in Abu Dhabi qualifying. “They're probably very, very similar in terms of performance. Which in itself, obviously, is not great, because with an update, you need it to work. So maybe proved a point there.

“[It's] very disappointing and upsetting for us. We're not happy about this, of course. That's the story of our season, we didn't develop anything and totally got overtaken and out-developed and hence, we're last today, that's the root cause. So we need to really address going into next year."

Asked about prospects for 2024 given the lack of progress, he said: "That's all hypothetical. I think we have to prove it when the time comes. I think we need to look at what we've done and what we have.

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Nico Hulkenberg, Haas F1 Team

“Maybe we need to make some changes because what we've done this year didn't work. But there are some big questions going into winter break now."

Hulkenberg admitted that he hadn’t expected to qualify so well in Abu Dhabi, with the team’s own numbers suggesting that he was more likely to join Magnussen in not progressing from Q1.

"Not bad, and pretty unexpected, to be honest,” he said when asked by Motorsport.com about the performance. “I mean, Friday was obviously a really bad day. With the FP1 I sat out, that's normal, that's not the cause.

"And I did a mistake in FP2, and only had that one lap on the medium. So that was a bit worrying.

“But FP3, somehow I came off on the good foot with the car, had a good rhythm, had good confidence, which allowed me to push, and I kept that feeling all the way through quali, which is very nice.

"I think our own predictions were that we probably were going to be out in Q1. So there's a nice little surprise there."

Hulkenberg was one of a number of drivers to struggle with track limits in qualifying. Reflecting on his lost lap times, he explained: "Luckily, they were always the first run of each session, the last corner. The tyre goes off, overheats at the end of the lap, and you just start to slide.

“And obviously you're fighting on the limit, and it's all on a knife's edge. So it's things of one of two centimetres, it's always very difficult to judge from where we sit when we push the cars to the limit. But yeah, got away with it today."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/steiner-haas-right-of-review-case-highlighted-fia-bad-job-on-track-limits/10546942/
DATE: 2023

Steiner says the fact that the stewards said that the FIA was doing a "bad job" on track limits was itself a win.

Haas submitted the right of review request after studying footage of cars at Turn 6 during the US GP at Circuit of the Americas, and determining that , ,  and  had all committed multiple offences during the race.

The team compiled video and photographic evidence which they believed was the new and relevant information that would trigger a review.

The US GP stewards deemed otherwise, while urging the FIA to find a better solution for track limits, and specifically Austin’s Turn 6.

“I don't regret it,” said Steiner when asked by Motorsport.com about the failed bid. “Obviously we were conscious that it will be difficult to make it stick, but at least we tried.

“And what came out is that the stewards actually said the FIA is doing a bad job. And I think that's what was done.

“We didn't get anything out of it, but you have to try, in life you have to fight. You just can't say, 'Oh I do nothing.'”

The stewards also noted that Haas should have submitted a protest immediately after the US race rather than waiting and making a review request, but Steiner didn’t agree with that assertion.

Photo by: Simon Galloway /

Guenther Steiner, Team Principal, Haas F1 Team

“What they said is what they [the FIA] should have done is made sure that they had a CCTV camera on Turn 6, so I don't have to protest,” he said. “I mean, let's go that way, that is number one.

“They should make sure that they've got the means in place to check their own regulation, not me sitting at home, or Aston Martin checking what they are doing. That is not the team's job.

“And in half an hour, we didn't have the time to do to go through all that stuff, because that is not our job.

“We are not the governing body, we are a race team. We pay somebody to do this job, the FIA.”

He added: “And then again, a protest costs you a lot of money, a right of review costs very little. You need to be smart as well!

“I mean, it's worth it. I think that's worth it for whole of F1, not only for us, because everybody agreed with that, but nobody did anything about it. I think we are helping to develop Formula 1 rules.”

Asked if he felt the team had received a fair hearing, Steiner said: “A fair hearing will be that they will accept the right of review and we could review it properly.

“They didn't want to go there, for obvious reasons. And that's it, end of story.

“But as long as we move forward and get better for the future, that's already a win."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/haas-to-split-cars-between-old-and-new-f1-packages-for-las-vegas-gp/10545947/
DATE: 2023

The decision is not a result of an attempt at a back-to-back data-gathering exercise, but is simply down to the preferences of the individual drivers.

The team took a different direction with the upgrade package, first seen at the US GP last month, and has since earned some solid midfield grid positions.

However, the cars are still proving hard in their tyres over a race stint, leaving the helpless drivers to drop down the order.

"The main drive behind this was Nico feels that for him the old spec suits him better, and Kevin is the opposite," said team boss Guenther Steiner of the decision to run both versions.

"We've opted to give them what they want, we have two races to go and nothing to lose, so we've tried to do what we can.

"We could discuss gathering data, but we've got enough data, it's a decision based on what each driver likes more than anything else. It puts them in a comfortable position so that they're as happy as they can be with the car they get."

Regarding the specific challenges of the night event, he added: "The low temperatures are a challenge, as everyone knows you need to keep the tyres higher than the minimum temperature, which is higher than five degrees, so we always need to keep them a bit warmer, but it depends also a lot on the asphalt.

"It's a combination of temperature and roughness of asphalt, but I don't think degradation can get much worse for us than in Brazil. On Thursday, during practice, we'll get to know the surface, the track, the temperature and then we'll know more."

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Kevin Magnussen, Haas VF-23

Steiner indicated that the main issue in races is tyre surface overheating, caused by excessive sliding, and he stressed that it has to be solved for 2024.

"We're learning what doesn't work, but I think we need to fix it," he told Motorsport.com after the Brazilian GP. "We know what we need on the aero. But we still need to make it, obviously.

"We are going in the right direction I hope in the wind tunnel. And for next year, we will cure this, we'll learn about the cooling of the rims, and all that stuff.

"At the moment, we don't have a big issue any more with the carcass temperature, it's just the sliding, the surface overheating now.

"You learn bit by bit, but we cannot keep on learning, we need to give some results, to be honest. At least we're doing something, because the other car just didn't work."

Steiner made it clear that the tyre issue was still very evident at Interlagos, the team's third race since the update package was introduced.

After repairs to damage sustained in the startline accident were completed during the red flag period  eventually finished 12th, beating only the cars that were a lap down from the restart.

"Nico struggled so much," said Steiner. "It's all management. It's not racing, it's management. It's a pattern of the whole year. It's not just the rears, it's all the tyres, we just have big deg, we just cannot keep them alive.

"But look at the . What is it that some cars are doing it good, and some are bad? The Aston was good, but the  was degging as well."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-stewards-slam-fias-inability-to-enforce-track-limits-in-haas-us-gp-hearing/10544790/
DATE: 2023

This damning verdict from the stewards follows an investigation into the results of the recent United States Grand Prix after a right-of-review protest was launched by the Haas team.

Haas might have elevated its driver  to the points after drawing attention to cases of , ,  and  exceeding the Austin track limits at Turn 6 which were not identified by the stewards during the race.

While the protest has been thrown out since Haas' case relied on onboard footage that was available at the time and did not satisfy the criteria for "significant" and "relevant" new evidence, the FIA has acknowledged failings surrounding the policing of track limits.

In the stewards' verdict pertaining to the Haas protest, they acknowledge an "inability" from the FIA to uniformly uphold the current standards to which track limits should be enforced.

They, therefore, recommend the rapid deployment of a solution for this "completely unsatisfactory" handling.

The stewards determined: "Given that, notwithstanding the formal outcome of this [Haas] decision, the stewards have seen individual pieces of evidence that show what appear to be potential track limit breaches at the apex of Turn 6, they find their inability to properly enforce the current standard for track limits for all competitors completely unsatisfactory and therefore strongly recommend to all concerned that a solution to prevent further re-occurrences of this widespread problem be rapidly deployed."

Kevin Magnussen, Haas VF-23, Logan Sargeant, Williams Racing FW45

It transpired that the CCTV camera at Turn 6 at the Circuit of The Americas, which was used in conjunction with onboard footage to monitor possible track limit breaches, did not have a clear view of the corner apex.

The issue of track limits has reared its head throughout the season. The FIA identified more than 1200 possible cases of cars exceeding the painted white lines with all four wheels during the Austrian GP.

Resultingly, gravel traps that were recommended by the governing body previously but turned down by Red Bull Ring organisers will now be installed in time for the race in 2024.

Then in Qatar, the round immediately prior to the US GP, the white lines were painted thicker at some corners overnight to give drivers more room for error as part of a temporary solution following multiple offences during FP1 and Friday qualifying.

The stewards conditioned: "Whether the problem is properly addressed by better technology solutions, track modifications, a combination thereof, or a different regulation and enforcement standard, the stewards leave to those better positioned to make such assessments.

"However, based on the timing of this decision, it is clear that a complete solution cannot, as a matter of practicality, happen this year.

"But given the number of different circuits where significant track limit issues arose this season, acknowledging that the FIA in conjunction with the circuits have already made significant strides, further solutions should be found before the start of the 2024 season."

The FIA establishing a Remote Operations Centre in Geneva has sped up the track limits identification and response procedure, while the number of personnel monitoring possible breaches in an F1 race has been increased.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/full-fia-verdict-on-haas-request-for-review-of-f1-us-gp-track-limit-breaches/10544774/
DATE: 2023

Haas launched a formal 'right to review' that, if successful, stood to elevate its driver Nico Hulkenberg into the points at Austin after identifying cases of cars exceeding track limits that were not identified by the stewards at the time.

Its case was based around onboard footage showing Alex Albon, Sergio Perez, Lance Stroll and Logan Sargeant straying with all four wheels beyond the painted white lines denoting the edge of the track at Turn 6.

The stewards have acknowledged that the circuit CCTV camera was poorly positioned so did not fully cover the corner exit and that the policing of track limits needs to be urgently reviewed.

However, relying on video evidence that was already available to competitors during the grand prix does not satisfy the FIA criteria for a successful protest, so Haas' case has been thrown out.

The full document that outlines Haas' case, the defence from Aston Martin, Williams, Red Bull, McLaren and Ferrari and the stewards' reasoning and final verdict can be found in full below:

1. On November 3, 2023, the Stewards received a petition from MoneyGram Haas F1 Team ("Haas") requesting a Right of Review in accordance with Article 14 of the FIA International Sporting Code ("the Code").

2. The request related to the Decisions of the Stewards contained in documents number 59 (no further action on Car 23 for alleged breaches of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 2c) of the Code and Article 33.3 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations) (“ALB Decision”) and number 66 (Final Classification) from the 2023 United States Grand Prix.

3. A hearing was convened at 15:00 hrs CET on November 8, 2023, and concerned parties were summoned (document numbers 68 to 71).

4. The Stewards of the United States Grand Prix conducted the hearing.

5. Attending the hearing were:

On behalf of MoneyGram Haas F1 Team – Messrs. Ayao Komatsu and Andrea Fioravanti(External Legal Counsel)On behalf of Aston Martin Aramco Cognizant F1 Team (“Aston Martin”) – Messrs. Mike Krack,Oliver Rumsey and Andy StevensonOn behalf of Williams Racing (“Williams”) – Messrs. Sven Smeets and David ReddingOn behalf of Oracle Red Bull Racing (“Red Bull”) – Mr. Jonathan WheatleyOn behalf of the FIA – Messrs. Nikolas Tombazis, Steve Nielsen and Tim MalyonOn behalf of Scuderia Ferrari (“Ferrari”) – Mr. Inaki RuedaOn behalf of McLaren F1 Team (“McLaren”) – Mr. Randeep Singh

The first four competitors mentioned in the list above were summoned to the hearing, the lasttwo competitors requested permission to attend as concerned parties.

6. This hearing was dedicated to determining, at the sole discretion of the Stewards (as specifiedin Article 14.3 of the Code) if “a significant and relevant new element is discovered which wasunavailable to the parties seeking the review at the time of the decision concerned”. In thiscase, the party was MoneyGram Haas F1 Team and the decisions concerned were documents59 and 66 issued during the United States Grand Prix.

7. Therefore, the Stewards were required to determine if any evidence presented to them was able to meet each and every one of the above criteria namely significant, relevant, new and unavailable to the party seeking the review. In addition to that, if the criteria significant, relevant and new were met, the Stewards would have to determine that such an element was discovered.

8. Haas cited four issues which it regarded as meeting these criteria. These were:

a. On-board video footage of Car 23 and following cars showing Car 23 allegedly leaving the track on several occasions at the apex of Turn 6 during the race.

b. On-board video footage of Car 2 showing it allegedly leaving the track on several occasions at the apex of Turn 6 during the race.

c. On-board video footage of Car 11 showing it allegedly leaving the track on several occasions at the apex of Turn 6 during the race.

d. On-board video footage of Car 18 showing it allegedly leaving the track on several occasions at the apex of Turn 6 during the race.

9. In its written submission Haas also submitted that during the Team Managers’ Meeting held on October 27, 2023, before the 2023 Mexican Grand Prix, the FIA Race Director and the FIA Single Seater Sporting Director allegedly made several statements indicating that the track limit supervision at Turn 6 during the United States Grand Prix was not ideal.

10. During the hearing, Haas, represented by Mr. Fioravanti, specified that the petition to review the ALB decision needs to be seen separately from the petition to review the Final Classification. The petition to review the Final Classification was submitted with the intention to take action based on the evidence submitted concerning alleged track limit infringements by Cars 2, 11 and 18, which were neither noted, nor investigated nor penalized by the Stewards, as reflected in the Final Classification.

11. Haas provided no additional evidence during the hearing but reinforced its position outlined in its written submission.

12. Aston Martin, represented by Mr. Stevenson, stated their belief that there were no new elements. In particular, they mentioned that several tests required by Article 14.1 of the Code would not be met as in their opinion the evidence submitted was neither new, nor unavailable or discovered as the on-board cameras of all cars are available to the teams during the race. Further, it was stated that Aston Martin does not consider the on-board footage to be significant as no secondary evidence such as CCTV was presented and all teams had clearly been informed on many previous occasions by the FIA that track limit infringements would not be judged solely based on on-board camera footage due to the inherent limitations of such footage

14. Red Bull, represented by Mr. Wheatley, stated their belief that there were no new elements and agreed with the arguments made by Aston Martin. They added that there had been no Decision made on Car 11 during the event either. Additionally, they acknowledged that, in their opinion, the statement made by Haas concerning any information given during the Team Managers' Meeting before the Mexican Grand Prix is completely irrelevant to this case.

15. Williams, represented by Mr. Redding, echoed the arguments made by Aston Martin and Red Bull.

16. The representatives of Ferrari and McLaren indicated that they had nothing further to add to the points already made.

17. The Stewards asked Haas if they could elaborate on the statement made in their submission concerning the unavailability of the on-board camera footage. In response Mr. Fioravanti, representing Haas, maintained that the evidence submitted was unavailable to the team at the time.

18. The Stewards adjourned the hearing at 1530 hrs to determine the existence or otherwise of any "elements" which complied with all the criteria required in Article 14.1.1 of the Code.

19. The Stewards also note the decisions of the Stewards in relation to the existence of such elements in the previous cases of the Right of Review Requests (Aston Martin) Saudi Arabia 2023, (Ferrari) Australia 2023 and (McLaren) Canada 2023. Other petitions going back several years were also noted. It is fair to say that Article 14.1.1 sets a very "high bar" to clear before opening a new hearing and reviewing a decision.

20. Accordingly, the Stewards then assessed each of the "elements" submitted by Haas against each of the criteria referred to in point 7 above.

21. Regarding the on-board camera footage of Car 23 and following cars the Stewards:

a. Determine that it is significantb. Determine that it is not newc. Determine that it was available to Haas (the party seeking the review) at the time ofthe decisiond. Determine that it is not relevantFor the reasons for this assessment please see points 24 to 26.

22. Regarding the other three elements submitted (on-board camera footage of Cars 2, 11 and 18)the Stewards:

a. Determine that they are not significantb. Determine that they are not newc. Determine that they were available to Haas (the party seeking the review) at the timeof the decisiond. Determine that they are not relevant

For the reason for this assessment please see points 27 and 28.

23. Therefore, the Petition for the Right of Review is REJECTED because there is no significantand relevant new element that was unavailable to Haas at the time of the Decision.

24. In relation to point 21a, the on-board camera footage of Car 23 and particularly the following cars are significant as they appear to show at least some apparent breaches of Appendix L, Chapter IV, Article 2c) of the Code and Article 33.3 of the FIA Formula One Sporting Regulations when viewed without the additional context that Stewards apply, as noted in point

25. In relation to 21d, the footage is not relevant. As already noted in the ALB Decision (one of the subjects of this review request) after the race, the evidence available to the Stewards (both then and now) was not sufficient to accurately and consistently (meaning for every car in every lap) penalize any [track limit] breaches occurring at the apex of Turn 6. Track limit infringements are almost universally enforced based on principal video evidence from a fixed CCTV camera of adequate resolution positioned to clearly see a car's position in relation to the track limit boundary. The CCTV camera for Turn 6 did not meet that standard as it did not cover the apex of the corner. Because onboard cameras are only useful for verifying a breach when viewing a car in front of the camera car and not the camera car itself, the Stewards believed they could not accurately and consistently conclude whether a breach occurred for every car on every lap. Anecdotal usage of trailing car video, which may or may not be available for any given car's potential breach at any given time does not meet that accurate and consistent evidence standard. Therefore, the latitude provided to the Stewards in the Code was used to take no further action based on the lack of accurate and consistent evidence for all cars, in the interest of Sporting Fairness as stipulated in Articles 1.1.1 and 1.2.1 of the Code and delegated to the Stewards in Article 11.9.1 of the Code.

26. In relation to 21b and c, the onboard footage is not new and was available to the party seeking the review (Haas) as well as to the Stewards at the time of the decision. Contrary to the statement of Haas in the hearing, they were available to the Stewards and could have been reviewed, however they were not reviewed by choice of the Stewards for the reasons already noted. The test of Article 14.1.1 is availability, not whether the elements were discovered as a result of that availability. In addition to that, all on-board cameras are made available to all teams in real time during an event, so the onboard footage was available to Haas at the time of the decision even if it might not have been reviewed at that time.

27. In relation to 22b and c, the onboard footage is not new and has been available to the party seeking the review (Haas) as well as to the Stewards at the time of the decision (see also the explanations made in point 26).

28. In relation to 22a and d, the elements submitted are neither significant nor relevant in relation to the Decision (document 66) petitioned to be reviewed. The petition for review asks for Document 66 (Final Classification) to be reviewed. Haas submitted that the purpose of this petition was to ask the Stewards to take action on alleged track limit infringements by Cars 2, 11 and 18 for which no ruling was given by the Stewards during the race. The Stewards reaffirm that a petition to review the Final Classification must concern the classification itself. It is not possible to exercise the Right of Review on the Final Classification to question decisions taken prior to it. This also applies to incidents for which no ruling was made during an event. The appropriate remedy to raise alleged infringements of the regulations by other competitors during a competition is a protest as was done, for example, by Aston Martin at the 2023 Austrian Grand Prix. The Right of Review is intended to enable competitors to seek a review for formal decision taken by the Stewards in the light of any significant and relevant new evidence that was not available to the party seeking the review at the time of the decision.

29. The Witness Statement submitted by Haas concerning the Team Managers' Meeting before the 2023 Mexican Grand Prix does not constitute significant evidence as the submissions allegedly made by the FIA Race Director and the FIA Single Seater Sporting Director had no relevance for assessing whether the criteria of Article 14.1.1 of the Code had been met for either of the decisions petitioned to be reviewed.

30. Given that, notwithstanding the formal outcome of this Decision, the Stewards have seen individual pieces of evidence that show what appear to be potential track limit breaches at the apex of Turn 6, they find their inability to properly enforce the current standard for track limits for all competitors completely unsatisfactory and therefore strongly recommend to all concerned that a solution to prevent further reoccurrences of this widespread problem be rapidly deployed. Whether the problem is properly addressed by better technology solutions, track modifications, a combination thereof, or a different regulation and enforcement standard, the Stewards leave to those better positioned to make such assessments. However, based on the timing of this Decision, it is clear that a complete solution cannot, as a matter of practicality, happen this year. But given the number of different circuits where significant track limit issues arose this season, acknowledging that the FIA in conjunction with the circuits have already made significant strides, further solutions should be found before the start of the 2024 season.

Competitors are reminded that, in accordance with Article 14.3 of the Code, this decision is not subject to appeal.

Decisions of the Stewards are taken independently of the FIA and are based solely on the relevant regulations, guidelines and evidence presented

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/fia-rejects-haas-request-for-review-of-us-gp-track-limits-breaches/10544759/
DATE: 2023

Last week it emerged that Haas had lodged a petition with the FIA to review various track limit breaches in Austin, asserting that several drivers had benefited from abusing track limits at COTA's Turn 6, that were not properly policed by race control.

Afterwards, several teams raised questions after seeing onboard images of competitors apparently crossing the white line, including , ,  and .

In an initial response, the FIA acknowledged that there had been "indication for possible track limit infringements in Turn 6" but without sufficient evidence to hand out penalties.

Haas disputed this, however, and launched a right of review procedure which hinges on the party in question providing new, significant and relevant evidence that wasn't available at the time.

Haas moved to ask for a right of review as in Sargeant's case a five-second penalty would have seen him lose his point for 10th place to Haas driver .

The hearing ran across Wednesday and Thursday and involved the respective team managers of Haas, Red Bull, Williams and Aston Martin, as well as representatives from Ferrari and McLaren. Haas submitted on-board footage from Perez, Albon, Sargeant and Stroll allegedly crossing track limits in Turn 6 on several occasions, as well as footage from cars following Albon through the corner.

But the Austin stewards also present in the hearing decided that, contrary to Haas' point of view, those videos were already available to the team at the time of the original stewards' decisions on Sunday night, which absolved Albon and finalised the race classification.

The FIA panel therefore rejected Haas' request, meaning the matter is now closed. If the FIA had agreed that Haas' evidence qualified for right of review, the team would have been granted a subsequent second hearing to review the race result.

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Nico Hulkenberg, Haas VF-23 Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri AT04

The stewards did agree that the evidence against Albon was significant while dismissing the evidence against the other three drivers and judging that none of the evidence presented was new or relevant.

They re-iterated that the images were available to them, but were not considered sufficient evidence due to the lack of fixed CCTV footage.

The stewards therefore couldn't penalise Albon or other drivers for alleged Turn 6 offences, but they stressed the importance of finding better track limits solutions in the future, a process which is already underway.

"[The stewards] find their inability to properly enforce the current standard for track limits for all competitors completely unsatisfactory and therefore strongly recommend to all concerned that a solution to prevent further re-occurrences of this widespread problem be rapidly deployed," said the hearing statement.

"Whether the problem is properly addressed by better technology solutions, track modifications, a combination thereof, or a different regulation and enforcement standard, the stewards leave to those better positioned to make such assessments."

Track limits issues have plagued F1 in recent years, with this year's Austrian Grand Prix a particular low-point as stewards faced the near-impossible task of reviewing over 1200 potential breaches. The final result was declared nearly five hours after the chequered flag.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/magnussen-still-curious-over-real-tyre-gains-from-haas-f1-upgrade/10544701/
DATE: 2023

Haas introduced a revamp of its VF-23 at the United States Grand Prix that resulted in it becoming the final F1 squad to adopt the downwash sidepod concept that Red Bull has put to best use over the past two years.

The changes were aimed at bringing more downforce for Magnussen and team-mate Nico Hulkenberg, as well as improving on tyre life that both drivers had suffered from this year.

While a run of sprint weekends and the outlier track of Mexico has left the team unsure about how much improvement the changes have brought, Magnussen thinks there are some early positive signs.

"I think what I'm curious about, and we need more data, is whether this style of aero is better for our tyre issue," said Magnussen. "I do think it is, but you need to put in a lot of factors.

"I think, overall, we're probably a little worse with this upgrade on one lap. But then one lap pace and race pace are different things.

"I think on race pace, at the end of the stints, tyre performance is a little bit better because I think we've seen some small signs.

"It hasn't solved the issue, but I think it's just maybe made it a little bit better. And that's one of the things that I find interesting for next year, because next year, hopefully it will be a very big step."

Although the upgrade has not delivered a dramatic step forward in pace, Magnussen thinks that, considering it is a major baseline shift of concept, it is encouraging that it has not left the team further back.

"This upgrade here is like the first drawing of this concept of car," he said. "With no development, [it was] just draw a new car, and put it on track.

"Usually, you spend a lot of time developing but this was like almost the first prototype that they just produced and put on the car with no development.

"So, it's interesting that we spent so much time on last year's car and we just throw that in the bin, draw a new car and then it's the same, it's not any worse. That's also encouraging."

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Kevin Magnussen, Haas VF-23, Nico Hulkenberg, Haas VF-23

Haas is continuing to better understand the performance characteristics of its upgrade that arrived in Austin, and brought a revised front wing upper flap to Brazil to help aero balance.

Improving the overall output of the car means that the team has to reconsider its setup options at each grand prix, including its aerodynamic balance, and the upgrade provides more versatility in terms of dialling in front-to-rear balance for the remaining races on the calendar.

The update package introduced by Haas at the United States Grand Prix marked a milestone in the design phase of this new generation of car, as it became the last team on the grid to abandon its original sidepod design and converge on a variation of the downwash ramp-style solution.

As part of this redesign, Haas also opted to increase the longitudinal disparity between the upper and lower lips of the sidepod's inlet, with the lower lip sitting much further forward than the upper lip.

This helps to construct a more effective passage for both the airflow into the inlet and the sidepod's undercut, which has also benefited from the alterations, as the bodywork has been shrink-wrapped more tightly.

Owing to this, the blister formed around the lower SIS on the lower face of the undercut is now more prominent, highlighting that it is located in this higher position on the VF-23, whereas many of its rivals slung it down lower and have disguised it within the floor.

The downwash ramp bodywork is also complemented by a waterslide or gully system, albeit a gentler approach rather than the deeper option that the likes of Aston Martin, Alpine and McLaren now have.

Meanwhile, cooling has also been revised with much more emphasis placed on the shoulder of the engine cover, as the cooling gills have been moved to this region, rather than being located in the bathtub-like crevice atop the sidepod bodywork it had previously.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/haas-has-clear-evidence-of-us-gp-f1-track-limits-breaches/10543968/
DATE: 2023

Haas studied onboard videos, including shots from following cars, and the team believes that , ,  and  all committed multiple offences at Turn 6 that went unpunished.

The review request will be considered by the original FIA stewards of the event in an

Their first task will be to decide whether or not the Haas request ticks all the boxes, notably in terms of presenting a "significant and relevant new element" that wasn't previously available.

If they agree that the request is a valid one, they will then consider that evidence and rule on it.

"It's just a review," Steiner told Motorsport.com. "There's a regulation in place. I mean, in the end, if the stewards didn't have the information, obviously they couldn't take action. I fully understand that.

"But there is information, and now we'll see what the FIA does, once they get the information. I think they need to take action, because otherwise we make rules and then don't do anything about it. That's my opinion.

"Okay, I fully respect if they didn't see the pictures, how can they rule this for sure? But now we have clear evidence of it.

"We just want to bring the case up, because otherwise we need to change the rules. I'm not a big fan of track limits, to be honest.

"I'm the last one who wants penalties on track limits. But if there's a rule in place, we need as a sport to respect rules, that is more the principle of it, than the penalty."

Photo by: Simon Galloway /

Guenther Steiner, Team Principal, Haas F1 Team

All four drivers named in the right of review request finished ahead of Haas's , and in the case of Albon and Sargeant, by just a few seconds.

However, Steiner downplayed any possible impact on the results.

"I don't think the penalty will make a difference to us where we are, at the moment," he said.

"But in the end, we just need to go by the rules, we cannot sometimes apply the rule, and sometimes not. It's not by choice, a rule is there, and if you need to change the rule, let's discuss it, if you need to change track limits, discuss it.

"But not if it is written that it is four times you get five seconds and any consequent [offences] you get another five seconds, that's what we should be doing. Like we did before. It's not that we're inventing something new."

He added: "We will make the case if we can make the case because they should hear it, because there is new evidence. So we will make the case when we get to it."

Other teams queried the abuse of track limits at Turn 6 after the race.

The FIA's view, repeated in a meeting at the following race in Mexico, was that the CCTV didn't provide a clear enough view to make accurate assessments. However, some offences at that corner were flagged on the day.

The FIA has already agreed to have a better system in place for next year's race at COTA's Turn 6.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/haas-seeks-fia-right-of-review-over-austin-f1-track-limit-breaches/10542752/
DATE: 2023

Following the race at Austin a fortnight ago, there were allegations that some drivers had taken liberties with abusing the track limits at areas of the track that were not heavily policed.

Onboard footage of several cars that were being distributed among teams especially showed a number of drivers being well beyond the track edge white lines at Turn 6 of the Circuit of the Americas.

These incidents had largely escaped scrutiny from the FIA as they were not flagged up in the official list of track limit breaches throughout the Austin race.

The images were enough, however, to prompt several teams to query the FIA at the recent Mexico Grand Prix about why what appeared to be obvious track limit breaches had not been looked at.

It is understood that the FIA's response was in line with what stewards stated in the aftermath of the USA GP.

It admitted that the CCTV cameras and monitoring infrastructure at that corner were not sufficient to properly police track limits as accurately as needed, so it could not take matters further.

This had been already highlighted at the Austin race when  driver  escaped without punishment for multiple breaches of track limits at Turn 6 - beyond the five-second penalty he had been handed for other offences.

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

Alex Albon, Williams FW45

The stewards, explaining why they had not sanctioned Albon despite onboard footage indicating he was over the line, said: "Based on the video footage available (which did not include CCTV), the Stewards determine, whilst there might be some indication for possible track limit infringements in Turn 6, the evidence at hand is not sufficient to accurately and consistently conclude that any breaches occurred and therefore take no further action."

But the FIA's argument that monitoring at Turn 6 was not good enough to judge track limits offences has not satisfied Haas, which has now formally submitted a request with the governing body for the matter to be reviewed.

It is understood that, as part of its request, Haas has submitted detailed onboard images, from both the cars involved and those following them, to highlight alleged multiple rules breaches.

The drivers involved in the matter are believed to include , Albon,  and .

Any sanctions for these drivers could prove critical in shuffling the race order that would potentially move Haas driver  up the order – so could have a significant impact on the constructors' championship fight.

The FIA has acknowledged receipt of the right of review request and will now reconvene the stewards of the United States Grand Prix to consider the matter.

It is understood that this meeting will take place next week, where the first decision made will be whether or not Haas has supplied enough new evidence to fulfil the requirement for an actual right of review hearing.

The FIA's statutes are clear that there needs to be fresh evidence available to go through with any official review.

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Nico Hulkenberg, Haas F1 Team in Parc Ferme

Article 14.1.1 of the FIA International Sporting Code states: "If, in Competitions forming part of an FIA Championship, cup, trophy, challenge or series, or of an international series, a significant and relevant new element is discovered which was unavailable to the parties seeking the review at the time of the decision concerned, the stewards who have given a ruling or, failing this, those designated by the FIA, may decide to re-examine their decision following a petition for review."

While Haas has pulled together detailed video evidence of the track limits breaches, it is unclear if the FIA will accept this as a 'new element', since race stewards have full access to on-board cameras during grand prix events.

Furthermore, the camera angle from onboards alone is not enough to properly judge a track limits breach as it does not offer a view of all four wheels in relation to the white lines.

In the wake of what happened at Austin, the FIA has made it clear that it will make sure that ramp up the attention it pays to track limit breaches at corners where problems like Turn 6 arise.

A spokesman for the governing body said: "The FIA will update its monitoring infrastructure to provide enhanced coverage to ensure that any potential breaches can reliably be identified during the race in future."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-las-vegas-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp1/1123648/
DATE: 2024

And with that, it is time to head off for a break. We'll be back at 5:45am GMT ahead of FP2 but for now, here is the full session report from the first outing of the weekend. As ever, thanks for your company!

Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes F1 W15

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

It should be noted, even Hamilton's session best time was roughly three seconds off the pole lap of 12 months ago, highlighting the evolution that is yet to come in the following sessions.

By the time FP1 came to a close, both the air and track temperatures had dropped by three degrees. This fall is expected to continue into FP2, which takes place at a similar time to both qualifying and the race.

"That was the first session we've had since Toto Wolff's comments on Hamilton's "shelf-life" emerged - the Mercedes boss has since moved to explain what he meant - but for the seven-time world champion that was a response that will have had him smiling under his helmet, while his face flashed up the Vegas night as it shone from the Sphere"

"I know it was only first practice, but that was another unimpressive run for Sergio Perez. His best time is only good enough for 10th place on the time sheets. Time is running out for him to prove he deserves to retain his seat at Red Bull next year. The other aspect is that Red Bull need him to start delivering points if they are to claw back their way into contention to win the constructors' championship."

Completing practice starts on the grid, Verstappen has massively overshot the grid box. Were that to happen in the race, he would be in hot water for that one.

Hamilton's final lap was 0.396s up on Russell. He has 0.953s over Norris in third and all other drivers are over a second back.

And Hamilton moves to the top with a 1m35.001s. With no one else on a hot lap, he will exit the car as the fastest man in the session.

Hamilton is into the final sector of his final effort, as he goes purple in sector one.

The chequered flag flies and Sainz is the first driver to take it.

"So far, so good for the new FIA race director, Rui Marques. Not major incidents like we saw last year so he has been able to easy himself into the big seat left vacant by Niels Wittich, who left the role after the Sao Paulo Grand Prix. We have Toto Wolff in the press conference later, so it will be good to get his thoughts on the shock departure and what he makes of Marques."

Hamilton goes top, but Russell is faster still with a third consecutive flying lap, moving to a 1m35.397s.

And we're about to see what Hamilton can do with soft, as he begins his first timed effort on the compound.

As the click ticks below five minutes, Russell returns Mercedes to the top with a 1m35.619s.

"It is another cold one in Vegas tonight, as soon as the sun disappears the temperature really does drop. While the FP1 action might not set pulses racing, race organisers will be happy to come through unscathed after last year. The fans who have come out for the first running are also making the most of it...maybe just to warm up!"

We're seeing a decent number of drivers in the pits now, we're probably going to see some warm tyres bolted on for a round of closing flying laps to end the session.

Hamilton is the only driver not to have tried soft tyres yet in this session.

10 minutes remain in FP1.

Up from 14th to sixth for Verstappen, but he remains 0.807s off the pace of Norris.

Verstappen reports a "connection issue" with his steering wheel, complaining that the radio "went on by itself". A peculiar problem, for sure.

McLaren has shown its hand for the first time this weekend, with Norris the first driver below 96s, putting in a 1m35.954s, as team-mate Piastri improves to fourth, sandwiching the Ferrari drivers.

Hamilton and Russell are out again but on medium tyres.

But he's immediately forced back by Ferrari team-mate Sainz who hammers in a 1m36.218s.

The first change at the top for a while, as Leclerc now puts in a 1m36.430s to better Hamilton by 0.497s.

And we've had confirmation of a five-place grid penalty for Bottas, after the Sauber driver has had a fourth energy store fitted to his car.

Yellow flags were briefly displayed again there - no explanation why quite yet.

On softs, Leclerc puts in a purple middle and personal bests in the other two sectors to move up to second, behind only Hamilton.

Magnussen is on it once again, moving up to third for Haas. This is the freedom of a driver knowing they aren't driving for their future.

"We have a voice but we don't have a vote," McLaren Racing CEO tells Sky Sports on the changing of the F1 race director. He hopes the move is a "step forward".

On the plus side, no drain issues to this point!

From 10th to third for Norris. The times have largely stabilised for the moment, but with another round of fresh rubber, the picture could all change very quickly.

Highlighting the pit entry issue, Albon has now been shown the same black and white flag as his Williams team-mate for crossing the white line.

"The pit entry line is almost impossible to see," reports Russell. With all the lines of the road, it is hugely difficult to pick out.

As per Chandhok's suggestion, a thick yellow line would clear up any confusion there.

An odd problem for Piastri here, as his McLaren refuses to switch off as his mechanics push the car back into the garage. It's eventually fixed, but as per the roll hoop lights, it was an electrical issue.

Currently, Mercedes enjoy a 1-2 led by Hamilton, with Leclerc leading a Ferrari 3-4. Championship players Norris and Verstappen are 10th and 9th respectively.

While the track is never going to fall completely silent during a session this weekend, half the grid have returned to the pits, resulting in a quieter track.

The first black and white flag of the weekend goes to Colapinto. Currently in 18th, he failed to follow the race director's event notes and crossed the white line on pit entry.

Proving how difficult the conditions are, Verstappen runs deep at the end of The Strip following a heavy lock up - his Red Bull screaming as it slid past the cameras.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-race-1123853/1123854/
DATE: 2024

and  will launch from the front row of the grid in Abu Dhabi as  looks to seal a first constructors' title since 1998.

, who secured McLaren's latest crown of any description with his maiden 2008 drivers' title, makes his final bow for  before his switch to , while , , ,  and  all start in F1 for potentially the last time.

The race gets under way at 13:00 GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-bahrain-pre-season-test-day-1-1121307/1121308/
DATE: 2024

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB20

Photo by: Steven Tee / Motorsport Images

Mercedes F1 W15 last flap

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

C3? We can see a few more than that! Mercedes opted for 25 sets of the medium tyre compound for the Bahrain test, more than any other team, having decided to take only two sets each of the C1 and C2. As the Bahrain track surface is so rough, the C3 will serve as next weekend's softest compound - so the team has already got an eye on the season opener.

Photo by: Jake Boxall-Legge

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Spot the inlets either side of the top of Verstappen's helmet. Red Bull's design department certainly wasn't relaxing over the winter.

Red Bull Racing RB20 detail

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-qatar-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1123762/
DATE: 2024

After handing victory in the Formula 1 Qatar Grand Prix sprint race to  team-mate  on the final lap,  has another shot at glory in qualifying.

Having repaid Piastri for his own sacrificial gesture in the Brazilian GP sprint, Norris will aim to underline his position as the faster of the papaya drivers by emulating the pace that enabled him to pip  to top spot in sprint qualifying on Friday.

But with Russell keen to strike back at McLaren after being frustrated by Piastri's defence in the sprint, the Las Vegas winner cannot be ruled out of the conversation for the penultimate pole position of the year.

Qualifying gets under way in Losail at 18:00 GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-las-vegas-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp3/1123670/
DATE: 2024

With that, we'll take a breather for a coffee break before firing up all over again for qualifying which starts at 6am GMT. Until then, go well!

George Russell, Mercedes F1 W15

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

What did we learn from that session ahead of qualifying? Well, Mercedes still appears strong and the track conditions will ramp up with every lap, so it could be a case of the last to set a lap time may triumph.

Oscar Piastri, McLaren MCL38

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar / Motorsport Images

So, a flurry of very late action to round out FP3 topped by Russell from Piastri, Sainz, Norris, Verstappen and Hamilton.

Anyway, the other 18 drivers minus Perez and Stroll do get to enjoy an out-lap, lap to the grid for a practice start and then an in-lap. Not much to learn, but it still sees the RBs almost collide as Tsunoda gets his braking wrong and nearly goes into the rear of Lawson.

Perez misses the opportunity to get out on track at the back of the car train, so he has to park at the end of the pitlane facing the red light. He's the only one to miss out and it was an odd one given he left a big gap to Russell ahead. He could've made it.

Stroll has come to a stop just outside the Venetian, as the car's red lights turn off so the marshals can recover the Aston Martin. The session will resume - for exactly 60 seconds to be precise.

Stroll's car totally switched off before he came to a halt and the red lights are flashing on his Aston Martin to indicate it isn't safe to touch yet. That could mean the session is effectively over with three minutes to go.

Not for long though, as a red flag is shown with Stroll parked at the side of the track with his Aston Martin smoking.

But just like that Verstappen is suddenly shuffled down to fifth as Russell goes fastest from Piastri, Sainz and Norris. The lap times keep on coming.

"The grip felt miles better," Verstappen reports on team radio. It certainly seems Red Bull has dialled in that car over the last hour.

Verstappen goes fastest of anyone with a 1m34.137s - 0.081s up on Russell. Problems, what problems?

Perez only manages 11th and 1.4s off the outright pace. Where does Verstappen stack up?

Verstappen has bailed out of his first push lap on the softs as Perez carries on. At the front, Russell takes over top spot again with a 1m34.218s.

Aaaaand there they are. Right on cue, Verstappen and Perez come out in formation and both on fresh soft tyres. Let's see what they've got ahead of qualifying.

There are 15 minutes left in FP3 but still no sign of the Red Bull drivers who haven't ventured out on the soft tyres yet.

After seeing so many empty seats for practice two, it is encouraging to see more spectators here for FP3. After asking around, it seems the locals are not bothered about practice, unlike some of the more-established markets. Organisers say they expect a full house on Saturday, so that's where their focus is. It does make it valid to suggest that perhaps, in order to increase ticket sales, Vegas should be selected as a location for the sprint races. At least it would get the punters in.

Russell briefly takes top spot only for his team-mate Hamilton to reply with a 1m34.341s - once again it is looking promising for Mercedes in these cold and slippery conditions. Can it last until the sessions that really matter?

A switch to Hamilton's onboard camera shows he is pushing on the softs, as he goes fastest overall with a 1m34.565s.

Plenty of lap time improvements elsewhere, as Magnussen goes fastest with a 1m34.883s for Haas.

"This is... I can't drive it. I'm gonna crash. My left front is completely f******," Verstappen says, stating his case to pit. Red Bull duly obliges and calls in its driver.

"It's only getting worse. The car is undriveable," Verstappen reports on team radio. "Just a couple more laps please Max. Have to try and make the best of this," Lambiase replies to his driver. That came after a lock-up at Turn 5.

All 20 drivers are on track so suddenly there is a fair bit of traffic to navigate. Hamilton gets caught behind Alonso and then Tsunoda to restrict his opening time lap to 1m36.590s.

Norris and then Piastri take over at the top, the Australian posting a 1m35.759s for top spot in the McLaren 1-2.

Tsunoda blows that theory away with a 1m37.517s to go three seconds quicker than Verstappen. A high number of drivers are on out-laps now so this track will ramp up rapidly over the final 34 minutes.

Norris posts a 1m41.653s to slot into third behind both Red Bulls. Another warm-up lap or is the track really this much slower? Verstappen improves to go top but only with a 1m40.588s.

Norris has come out to be our yardstick, running on the soft tyres, as Perez and Verstappen both improve by a handful of tenths on their next laps.

Verstappen's opening effort is a leisurely 1m42.180s on the medium tyres. It seems hard to believe track conditions mean nine seconds slower than FP2, but let's see what others can produce before drawing conclusions.

Verstappen has had enough of the hanging around in the pits and nips out for the first time in the session, joined by team-mate Perez. Given all the trouble-free running yesterday - just the one short red flag caused by Albon stoppage in FP2 - it perhaps isn't surprising there isn't much track action early in FP3.

The hard tyre scrubbing continues for a handful of drivers, meaning it is just Tsunoda on track at present. And still just the one lap time overall which came from Perez earlier.

It may only be a practice session but Red Bull and Max Verstappen, in particular, will be keen to show improvement on their performance yesterday. We know the wing is an issue but with everything else now turned up to qualifying spec, let’s see where they actually sit in terms of pace.

Lawson, who has also joined the fun scrubbing in his hard tyres, says it is very slippery on track. The circuit reopened for public traffic between FP2 and this session, so it will be a case of rebuilding the grip levels and cleaning the racing line.

"Ah. Miles off," Perez says over team radio after his first timed lap of 1m41.941s. Given FP2's top times were in the 1m33s, he's made an accurate summation.

Both Aston Martins are also in action early while the rest stay comfortable and warm in the garages. Handy, as it is 14.9C air temperature and given the timing of the sessions that is the warmest it'll be all night.

Zhou nips out for an early exploration of the Las Vegas Strip, taking in the sights during his installation lap. He's joined by Perez and Hamilton, with the Red Bull driver sporting a visibly trimmed rear wing - it looks like someone's taken a bite out of it.

Off we go for final practice!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

While at Red Bull there is concern over its rear wing being unsuited to the demands of the Las Vegas track ,but that they are stuck with it for the weekend. .

Norris took second in FP2, just 0.011s off Hamilton, but . However, digging a little deeper, those concerns aren't strictly showing in the data - .

Lando Norris, McLaren MCL38

Photo by: Zak Mauger / Motorsport Images

The nightmare of manhole covers coming loose and delayed running were a distant memory, as the opening day of track action was a relatively straightforward and low key affair. Hamilton topped both FP1 and FP2 with Mercedes starting strongly in Vegas with Russell second in FP1 and third in FP2 too - .
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/video/can-mclaren-end-26-year-wait-for-constructors-trophy-abu-dhabi-gp-qualifying-report/657458/?filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Formula+1+2024&filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4660&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Haas+F1+Team&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=471
DATE: 2024

Alex Kalinauckas and Jonathan Noble review Saturday's Qualifying at the Abu Dhabi GP. McLaren enters Sunday's race as a huge favourite to win the Constructors Championship after locking out the front row, led by Lando Norris' eighth pole position of the season. Jon and Alex break down the potential threats standing in the way between the team and glory, such as Max Verstappen and Carlos Sainz starting behind them from Row 2. There's also more heartbreak for Charles Leclerc after a track limits breach knocked him out in Q2, forcing the Monegasque driver to start from the back of the grid post-penalty, a shock elimination for Lewis Hamilton in Q1 after a freak bollard, and Nico Hulkenberg's exceptional performance to qualify in fourth before receiving a three-place grid penalty for overtaking in the pitlane.

0:00 - McLaren starts 1-2 for the season finale

1:30 - Can Ferrari pose a threat to McLaren

2:21 - McLaren's chances of winning the Constructors

6:38 - Hamilton and Mercedes

8:13 - Nico Hulkenbergrgs penalty
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/hulkenberg-grid-penalty-safety-breach-abu-dhabi-gp/10680415/
DATE: 2024

Haas Formula 1 driver  will drop from fourth to seventh on the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix grid after incurring a grid penalty for overtaking at pit exit.

Hulkenberg starred in Saturday night qualifying at the Yas Marina circuit, taking fourth on the grid behind both McLarens and Carlos Sainz's , but ahead of world champion  in the Red Bull.

But Hulkenberg, who is contesting his last grand prix for Haas before moving to  in 2025, was facing an investigation that put his second-row starting spot in jeopardy, with a three-place grid drop later confirmed for overtaking cars at pit exit.

Abu Dhabi's pit exit is unique in that it crosses under the race track via a narrow tunnel, which means the FIA's race director sent an updated note on Friday reminding drivers that overtaking other cars is forbidden unless the car in front has an obvious mechanical issue.

But ahead of the final salvo of runs in Q1 Hulkenberg broke that directive, overtaking both Sainz and  driver Jack Doohan as drivers slowly coasted out of the pits to find a gap. He was then almost inadvertently nudged into the wall by  in the Aston Martin, further underlining the safety risk of trying to squeeze past at such a narrow pit exit.

Nico Hulkenberg, Haas VF-24

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

Facing the stewards, Hulkenberg argued he had no choice but to muscle his way past the cars in front to ensure he got his final lap in, but the stewards said that was not a valid reason to break regulations trying to avoid dangerous situations.

"The driver did not dispute during the hearing that he did not follow the race director’s instructions, but stated that he had no other option but to breach the rules in order to get a lap in," the stewards' verdict read.

"Whilst the stewards acknowledge that the position of the team’s garages limits their options to send the cars out on track, this can never be used as an excuse to breach any regulations.

"The prohibition of overtaking in certain areas as the pitlane or, in this case, the pit exit, is implemented to prevent potentially dangerous situations and therefore the stewards determine that a grid drop is warranted in this case."

Talking about his qualifying performance, Hulkenberg said: "I think the characteristics of the track just somehow really clicked and suited our car. Our development has been around medium-speed corners, and you've got many of them here, maybe it's that. The whole combination just somehow really worked well this weekend so far."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1123842/
DATE: 2024

The F1 season reaches a climax in Abu Dhabi with  and  set to battle it out for glory on the constructors' championship.

Off-track, a war of words between  and  has stolen the spotlight from drivers, including , who are either racing with teams for the last time or are making potentially their final appearance in the category.

topped first practice but picked up a 10-place grid penalty for a battery change, as  headed a McLaren 1-2 in FP2 and  repeated the McLaren dominance in FP3.

Qualifying starts at 2:00pm GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp3/1123837/
DATE: 2024

The F1 season reaches a climax in Abu Dhabi with  and  set to battle it out for glory on the constructors' championship.

Off-track, a war of words between  and  has stolen the spotlight from drivers, including , who are either racing with teams for the last time or are making potentially their final appearance in the category.

topped first practice but picked up a 10-place grid penalty for a battery change, as  headed a McLaren 1-2 in FP2.

Final practice gets under way at 10:30am GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/who-is-driving-at-the-2025-f1-abu-dhabi-post-season-test/10783370/
DATE: 2025

The 2025 Formula 1 competitive season may be over, but track activity is not: all 20 cars will be in action in  on Tuesday.

Each team will have one mule car driven by one or both race drivers, featuring Pirelli’s new range of rubber for the 2026 season, with slightly smaller and narrower tyres.

Even the tyres’ construction will be significantly different due to F1’s new technical regulations. When Pirelli asked all F1 teams to submit their predicted downforce levels for the end of 2026, there was much disparity between their simulations.

“It was more difficult for teams to estimate the performance of their 2026 cars at the end of the season,” Pirelli’s Mario Isola explained. “But we needed those simulations because we needed to design a product that is lasting for one year. If they just give us an idea of the car performance at the start of the season, and if we don't know what the rate of development will be, then it's difficult for us.”

Pirelli has therefore developed a broad spectrum of compounds, in case the real-world downforce levels turn out to be higher or lower than predicted by the teams.

The mule cars are 2025-spec machinery that has been modified to drop down closer to next year’s much lower downforce levels, though it cannot be fully accurate, partly because the 2026 cars will feature active aerodynamics.

“We have discussed some limitations with the teams, based on those first tests,” Isola added. “For example, we decided to avoid overloading the tyres on the straights. We were testing with a speed limit at 290km/h or 300km/h, because clearly they will have a lot less downforce on the straights next year. So we agreed on some methodologies for testing with the teams. Thanks to these methodologies it was possible to have feedback from the mule cars that was a little bit more coherent, more close.”

Valtteri Bottas, Mercedes, Mexico Pirelli Test

The test won’t change the 2026 compounds in any case, as the tyres have already been homologated for next season; it will simply help Pirelli choose the compounds for next year.

The Italian manufacturer has brought all compounds to Yas Marina Circuit except for the hardest dry-weather tyre, the C1, and the full-wet.

Meanwhile, the other 10 cars will be driven by rookies as part of the traditional end-of-season young drivers’ test. Only competitors with two grand prix starts or fewer are allowed to take part.

A number of 2025 race drivers will be skipping Tuesday's test.

This includes outgoing Red Bull racer  as well as his team-mate  and Mercedes' , with those teams giving all the track time to youngsters  and  respectively. Verstappen said he was “very happy” to miss out.

will field only , with  missing out.

will be the only test driver handling a mule car, with neither  nor  in action for Aston Martin – which is no surprise as far as the Spanish veteran is concerned, as he was looking forward to not driving the AMR25 any longer.

Ryo Hirakawa, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Many teams will field the same rookie as they did in Free Practice 1.

F2 frontrunners Dino Beganovic, Luke Browning and Jak Crawford will drive for the ,  and Aston Martin squads they are linked to.

Another F2 driver will be in action with his parent outfit,  at Alpine; the Enstone-based outfit will again loan out  to .

Now racing in IMSA with Cadillac,  reserve driver  will drive the Silver Arrow, while Toyota WEC driver and Haas reserve driver  will drive the VF-25.

Red Bull will entrust its protege  with the RB21 after the Japanese racer won the Super Formula championship. 2025 IndyCar runner-up and long-time  driver  will handle the title-winning F1 car.

Most importantly,  will gain important experience ahead of his graduation to Formula 1 with  in 2026.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-race-1126198/1126199/
DATE: 2025

I think that's a good place to leave it. Make sure to keep an eye out for our other post-race reaction, but let's give you one more Lando pic because this is his moment.

And who knows if he'll go back-to-back, because everything promises to look a lot different in the new era.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Michael Potts / LAT Images via Getty Images

Norris added on Sky: "I have to give it to Oscar, he's driven incredible. At some point he's going to get the better of me."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

More from an emotional Norris on Sky: "It's pretty cool. It's pretty insane. It's hard for me just to say it. I feel like I don't want to say it just yet, I'll wake up tomorrow and say it. It's been a season of ups and downs - has it been a perfect season? Absolutely not. Has it been by anybody? No.

"I'm happy I cried. Not many things in my life have made me cry, but today was one."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Rose / Formula 1 via Getty Images

It was all tears in parc ferme.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Andrea Stella, McLaren

Photo by: Bryn Lennon / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Sky now showing a montage of Norris' career up to now. It's mad where the time has gone!

World champion at the age of 26 in his seventh season of F1.

This is a very sweet interview with Lando's mum on Sky. Speaks of watching her grandchild in the Nativity play on Tuesday before flying to Abu Dhabi on Thursday. Mentions of Lando being in the garden driving the tractor as a kid, before Hamilton is caught in the media pen congratulating Norris.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Rudy Carezzevoli / Getty Images

Lando's mum on Sky Sports: "Emotionally drained, but very happy."

He'll be looking at a much bigger trophy soon...

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Rose / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

The Stella-Brown bromance!

Andrea Stella, McLaren, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Carlos Sainz: "Very happy for him. I think he's a great F1 driver. I think unbelievably fast.

"But with his particular way of going about life and things, as much as he's got criticised a lot during the last few years for being how he is, he's world champion and everyone can keep dreaming about being F1 world champion while he goes about his own way and does things his own way.

"So I'm extremely happy for him because he must have felt a lot of pressure over the last few weekends and he managed to pull it off."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

It's times like this where pictures speak a thousand words

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Brown going over to man he once compared to a villain from a horror film...

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando and his bosses.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Andrea Stella, McLaren, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Zak Brown: "If you beat Max and Red Bull, you've done a great job."

He then adds that Piastri is a "future world champion".

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Let's hear more from Lando.

"It's incredible. Pretty surreal. I dreamed of this for a long, long time - everyone does - a lot goes into a season like this. A lot of ups, a lot of downs, but none of that matters if you try to come out on top. The last seven, eight years I've been with McLaren, the last 17, 18 years of my life I've been chasing this dream.

"My best performances this year came when I needed them the most."

The moment Lando crossed the line to become champion.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

But queue the champagne, as Norris does his trademark celebration as a world champion for the first time!

Piastri lifts the runner-up trophy on the podium. It does look like he's trying to put on a brave face - a penny for his thoughts etc.

PR email of the day, dropped almost the second the grand prix finished. A street in Somerset, Lando's home county, will be named in his honour. It's almost like they had that planned and ready to go!

Lifts his head up to the sky as a Formula 1 world champion...

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Here comes the podium as world champion Lando Norris is first to greet the steps!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

The second Autosport young driver winner to win the F1 world championship after Jenson Button...

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Norris: "I've not cried in a while. DIdn't think I'd cry but I did. It's a long journey, a long journey."

Speaking of the championship, here is how the top three finishes:

1. Lando Norris - 423 points

2. Max Verstappen - 421 points

3. Oscar Piastri - 410 points

It's hugmania on that pit straight. Zak, Sainz, Russell, mechanics, family, all wanting a bit of Lando.

But the cameras did catch a nice moment when Norris' mum headed over to Piastri to console the other McLaren driver, who finishes this year third in the championship.

As is customary in Abu Dhabi, Norris is now doing doughnuts down the start-finish straight...

Verstappen: "I'm definitely not disappointed. I'm proud of everyone, we never give up."

A tearful Norris: "I love you guys, thanks for everything - you deserve it. I love you mum, I love you dad."

Camera pans straight to the McLaren garage, where Lando's mum is crying. These moments are the ones to savour...

LANDO NORRIS IS THE 2025 FORMULA 1 WORLD CHAMPION
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1126190/
DATE: 2025

That's us for now! We shall be back for race day when a world champion will be crowned...

Piastri: "The last lap in Q3 was pretty good, there's wasn't a lot left in that. Max has looked very quick in the long runs, let's see how much pace is a factor tomorrow."

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

Norris: "Max did a good job, so congrats to him. We did everything we could, my lap was pretty good so I'm happy. We just weren't fast enough today."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

Verstappen: "Of course incredibly happy to be in first, that's the only thing we can do."

Should he win tomorrow then he will match Hamilton's record of five Abu Dhabi GP victories.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

That also means Verstappen finishes the year with the most poles of any driver:

Verstappen - 8Norris - 7Piastri - 6Russell - 2Leclerc - 1

Max Verstappen is on pole for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, beating runner-up Lando Norris by 0.201s - sublime pace from the Red Bull driver, who even improved on his second lap without a tow.

Oscar Piastri is third but, I'm sure to Max's dismay, George Russell is only fourth. As it stands, Norris is world champion.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Two sectors down and neither McLaren driver is faster than Max...

Looks like there won't be any tow with Max going out before Tsunoda. Russell is eyeing one up from the world champion though and maybe Max will willingly give him one if it means getting the Mercedes man above Norris...

So it's Verstappen on provisional pole while team-mate Tsunoda is 10th. One does wonder what Red Bull does with Yuki in these final runs. Is it worth making him do a proper lap, or just give Max another tow?

Piastri splits the pair but Russell only manages fifth. Good job by Verstappen, but he needs more help from his rivals to push Norris down.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

It allows the four-time champion to set a 1m22.295s and it is four tenths quicker than Norris. Wow!

Though it must be said Lando was on used softs with Verstappen on fresh.

Tsunoda gives Verstappen a tow in sector two. Think that was planned don't you?

Here we are, the final quali session of the year and it's actually looking too close to call right now!

Antonelli had complaints about the rear but everything was clearly fine for team-mate Russell, who topped the session.

Verstappen was just 0.022s behind with Norris 0.074s off top!

George Russell, Mercedes

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

But that is Q2 now done and the bottom five is as follows:

Piastri was quickest in Q1 but he's survived a Q2 scare finishing just eighth and less than a tenth above the drop zone!

Quite a busy end to the session this and looks like Leclerc has now removed himself from danger, climbing up to a provisional fifth from 10th.

Well that's a busy pitlane! Everybody queuing up to get a final lap completed in these last four minutes.

Mercedes is looking good, but don't think Red Bull can rely on Ferrari to get in front of McLaren with Hamilton out in Q1 and Leclerc only 10th. The Scuderia didn't have a great FP3 either and Charles said the only positive of Friday was sharing the track with his brother Arthur.

Norris is loving that final sector because quite a few times now it's turned a good lap into a very good one. He's currently third and 0.074s off top with the fastest sector three time.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Not sure that's the record Hamilton had in mind when he joined Ferrari!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Hulkenberg's Q1 exit means him and team-mate Bortoleto will finish the year 15-15 for qualifying sessions in 2025. This is 12-12 without sprint weekends.

Absolute level pecking.

He's a lonely man out there as Verstappen is the only driver on track. Come on everyone, it's already started...

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

Quick turnaround: we're back for Q2 and Verstappen is first out.

But that's that for Q1 with Hamilton, Albon, Hulkenberg, Gasly and Colapinto all being eliminated.

Celebrations for Piastri though, as he was close to three tenths quickest with Verstappen second and Antonelli in third. Norris sixth.

"Every time mate, I'm so sorry," was Hamilton's reaction.

But here is a shock, well it would have been a year ago, as Lewis Hamilton suffers a Q1 exit for the third consecutive race.

The winter break cannot come quick enough for the seven-time champion...

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

Colapinto also puts in a lap not good enough so it's a double Alpine Q1 elimination - pretend to be shocked!

Speaking of the bottom five, Gasly improves but not by much so he is out.

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / LAT Images via Getty Images

Wasn't the best lap for Lando though, as the championship leader has since dropped to fifth. But quite frankly, who cares? It's only Q1 and what matters is the bottom five.

Whether it was or not is another matter, but it's done the trick as McLaren goes 1-2. Big advantage to Piastri as well!

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Rudy Carezzevoli / Getty Images

New softs for both McLaren cars - was that really needed?

Just five minutes remain in Q1 and cars are coming back out for their final runs. It's certainly a close grid with the top 18 within eight tenths of each other.

Well, Bearman's Haas is looking good because Ocon is currently in the dropzone.

Albon, Leclerc, Gasly and Colapinto are the others in the bottom five with Leclerc and Gasly having used the mediums. Seems a bit of a strange choice that one.

We mentioned earlier that Hamilton also started on the mediums, but he's since switched to softs and is fifth.

Go on Bearman! That Haas is looking good today with the rookie currently second in Q1 after finishing seventh, one spot behind team-mate Ocon, in FP3.

Oliver Bearman, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

More lap times are coming in now and Verstappen goes fastest with a 1m23.325s. It was only yesterday that he complained of struggles with his pace.

Back to the action, interesting choice of tyre for Hamilton and Gasly as both are on mediums with the rest on softs. Looks like they're hoping to save a fresh set of the red-stripped rubber.

So the pole position award will be presented by Benson Boone. Right, time for Google to come in handy...

Never fear Hamilton fans, as he's out on track for Q1 with his car having recovered from his FP3 crash.

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari crash

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp3-1126182/1126183/
DATE: 2025

And that's all from us for now! We'll be back a little bit later to guide you qualifying as it happens - please do join us again!

That's it for practice sessions this year. Just the small matter of qualifying and the race to go...

Photo by: Ronald Vording

Verstappen improves slightly with his last lap of the session, now just 0.124s off Russell and 0.120s off Norris.

Russell leads the session, then - so Mercedes is very much in the fight for pole here.

Ocon's found a good time to get up to sixth, perhaps he's found a fix for his braking woes. As it stands, the top 17 is all within 0.8s.

Norris can't quite improve either, despite improvement in the opening two sectors.

Some damage to Tsunoda's sidepod and floor, so he's ended up coming back in. Albon had ringside seats for the incident.

"The car still jumps, I can't keep my feet on the pedals," Verstappen reports.

The McLarens go out for a second set of laps on the same softs - Piastri is a smidgen slower than his previous effort.

Antonelli drove out of the pitlane and straight into the path of Tsunoda - which has caused damage to the Italian's front wing.

Better news for Mercedes is that Russell has gone to the top, 0.004s up on Norris. Verstappen goes third fastest, 0.180s off Russell's effort.

Bortoleto was matching Norris through that lap, as was Alonso - but their final sector times were well down on that of Norris.

You can get close in those opening sectors, as they're mainly affected by the braking into Turns 5, 6, and 7. But the final sector is the difficult bit.

Norris looked unsteady through Turn 6 and 7, and has to correct himself. He's down on Piastri out of the opening two sectors, but finds a monster final sector to post a 1m23.338s.

Hulkenberg's on a quick lap too, although has a small correction in the final sector - thus, he's 0.532s down.

Verstappen does a 1m24.116s, while Tsunoda aborts his lap.

But Piastri demonstrates the worth of those new tyres, and posts a 1m23.593s to go top by some margin.

Here we are - fresh softs for Piastri, Norris, and Stroll. Verstappen's on a swift one as we speak...

And we go again, 17 minutes on the clock. Nobody has gone out on fresh tyres, so perhaps they're saving a final set of softs until the final 10 minutes or so.

Alright, we're ready to go - almost. We'll restart in a minute's time.

We're just waiting for the go-ahead while Hamilton's car gets picked out of the Tecpro barrier - and, of course, for the barrier to be sorted.

Bit of repair work for Ferrari to do too, as the front-right suspension is hanging on by a thread.

Hamilton was on a quick lap and, on the turn-in to Turn 9 at the end of the second back stretch, the rear just went out from under him.

"Something buckled at the front and snapped the rear," Hamilton reported, as he gets out of the car.

Hamilton spins at Turn 9 and goes into the wall!

Bearman posts another lap, 0.086s off Verstappen's benchmark. He's been quick all weekend so far.

McLaren has more to find on its subsequent runs, although both drivers did their first soft-tyre laps relatively early into the session compared to those in the top five. Mercedes too, as Russell's only 13th and Antonelli's 17th.

Hamilton hits a 1m24.470s to go fastest, but is beaten by Verstappen by 0.225s. Stroll sets a time just 0.059s off Verstappen's effort.

Tsunoda, after that near-miss, splits the two Saubers - who are currently sixth and eighth.

Woah! Norris came across a very slow Tsunoda on the exit of Turn 11, and very nearly resulted in the two coming together.

Shades of Rosberg and Karthikeyan in the 2012 race there, when the then-Mercedes driver saw the HRT too late.

Norris sets a 1m24.533s on his second run on those softs. Tsunoda is up to second - or was, as Leclerc, then Bearman, go up to P2 - Bearman just 0.008s off.

Piastri is 0.595s off Norris at the present moment, in fifth. Laps coming in thick and fast now.

Both Aston Martin drivers have been given a €25,000 fine for not appearing at a scheduled fan engagement activity - with €15,000 of that suspended for 12 months.

The team had apparently said to both drivers that their appearances weren't required due to them stepping back for Jak Crawford and Cian Shields in FP1. Aston Martin has offered to make it up to the fans by making both drivers available for an appearance later this weekend.

Norris sets a 1m24.728s, so the circuit's not quite where it was at the end of yesterday.

But we expect it to ramp up a bit towards the end of the session. Leclerc does a time and goes second fastest, but he's over a second off Norris.

Here comes one of the big hitters, as Lando Norris breaks onto the circuit. Charles Leclerc also arrives on the scene.

Gasly has set a 1m25.984s, and Colapinto with a 1m26.591s, with our first timed laps of the season.

Colapinto and Gasly hit the road now, on Renault's final F1 weekend as an engine supplier...for now.

It's not the first time we've said that - Renault left at the end of 1986 and 1997 - and in both cases, returned within five years.

The works Renault engine teams Williams and Benetton

Photo by: Motorsport Images

It's still just the Aston Martin duo doing their laps around the circuit. Both Alonso and Stroll were summoned to the stewards for missing the fan engagement activities earlier on today.

I'm sure they had more important things to do, Aston Martin's drivers really don't need distractions right now as they battle for *checks notes* seventh in the constructors' championship.

Here we go, two Aston Martins going out for their weekly tyre scrub.

In the meantime, we've got F1's car performance graphic on the screen, which almost certainly means nothing.

...but no takers just yet. Limited tyres across a weekend, of course, so teams don't want to go out just yet.

Give it a few minutes.

And here's your weather watch: it's 27C and a little cloudy out there, with 38C track temperature.

It's the last chance for our 20 drivers to get acquainted to their cars over a practice session, before we get into qualifying later on.

We'll see if there's any big overnight changes - did McLaren and Red Bull find anything extra, and will Mercedes supply a bit more of a challenge, or will Haas and Sauber continue to surprise?

Esteban Ocon, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Max Verstappen is currently feeling pessimistic about his Abu Dhabi Grand Prix chances as Red Bull lacks pace to McLaren at the 2025 Formula 1 title showdown.

The four-time world champion finished runner-up to McLaren championship leader Lando Norris in both FP1 (+0.008s) and FP2 (+0.363s) on Friday at Yas Marina Circuit.

It comes during the season finale where Norris simply needs a podium finish to claim a maiden title, as he is 12 points ahead of Verstappen and 16 above team-mate Oscar Piastri.

Lando Norris ended the final Friday practice session of 2025 on top of the FP2 standings at the Formula 1 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, over three tenths clear of Max Verstappen - as Oscar Piastri was only 11th.

Hello everyone, and welcome back to our coverage of practice at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.

And it's the last practice session of the season, before we get into the business end of the year-long title battle.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/video/f1-update-norris-hits-the-ground-running-in-abu-dhabi-verstappen-not-in-a-comfortable-situation/665630/?filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Formula+1+2025&filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4855&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Haas+F1+Team&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=471
DATE: 2025

Lando Norris topped Friday practice in Abu Dhabi as McLaren started the weekend strongly. Oscar Piastri had a tougher day after giving up his FP1 seat to Pato O’Ward. Max Verstappen finished second, but Helmut Marko called the three-tenths gap to Norris “not a very comfortable situation,” while still expressing confidence that Red Bull can find pace before qualifying. Marko also doubts Mercedes or Ferrari can challenge Norris — pressure Verstappen could use. If that changes on race day, Zak Brown says McLaren is prepared to use team orders if needed, though Piastri won’t be asked to help from the start. Ronald Vording breaks it all down in the latest F1 Update, also touching on Isack Hadjar’s Red Bull promotion, another impressive day for Oliver Bearman, and Sauber’s farewell.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp2-1126167/1126168/
DATE: 2025

That's all from us, we shall be back for FP3 tomorrow.

As we start wrapping up this live commentary, I'll hit you with this stat.

Max Verstappen could become the fourth driver to have won the F1 title without leading the championship at any point during the season.

John Surtees (1964), James Hunt (1976) and Sebastian Vettel (2010) are those to have done it up to now.

Sebastian Vettel, Red Bull Racing RB6

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar / Motorsport Images

The session may be over but it's a busy track, because no doubt we'll start seeing some practice starts.

That's that then! The perfect day for Norris, who topped FP1 and FP2 with title rival Verstappen second in both. Piastri, meanwhile, nowhere near having skipped FP1 before finishing 11th in second practice.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

An interesting look at laps completed in FP2 and Verstappen, Albon and Lawson lead the way with 29. Ocon has completed the least on 24.

Bit of a boring end to the session with cars just going through their respective programmes. As predicted earlier, the leaderboard hasn't really changed in the last 10 minutes.

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Gabriel Bortoleto: "Who's this Ferrari?"

Jose Manuel Lopez: "Leclerc...the big Leclerc."

Bit of a funny exchange between Bortoleto and his Sauber race engineer after encountering the Ferrari on track.

It comes as FP1 saw both Charles and Arthur Leclerc drive for Ferrari as part of F1's young driver rule. Lewis Hamilton is now back though, but has spent much of FP2 in the bottom half.

Arthur Leclerc, Scuderia Ferrari

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

"Don't think he's totally dialled in yet, but he'll get there," Zak Brown tells Sky Sports regarding Piastri.

For the sake of a dramatic title showdown, let's hope he does because he's been nowhere in this FP2 session.

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Cars are back out and many are onto the harder compounds as expected. They'll be going through their long-run programmes now and so it's unlikely that the leaderboard will change much in the final 15 minutes.

Once again, good from Sauber which is fifth and sixth in this session after finishing fifth and seventh in FP1.

Hulkenberg and Bortoleto seem to be giving Peter Sauber a good send-off before the Audi takeover next year.

Gabriel Bortoleto, Sauber

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

"I don't know how it's so good," reported a jubilant Bearman, who is fourth in his Haas. Don't sound so surprised Oli, you did finish fourth in Mexico not long ago!

Looks like the hectic soft-tyre window is now coming to a close with half the grid back in their respective garages. Happy days for Lando and Max, but not Oscar.

Does it get better for Oscar on his second run? Not really, he remains 10th and was seven tenths off on that lap after a lock up at Turn 7. A lot of work to be done for the Aussie, who was once in complete command of this championship.

Although, Piastri didn't have a great first run on the softs as he is six tenths off the pace with reports of balance issues...

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

And now Norris goes fastest with the softs, ahead of Verstappen and Russell. So yes, sort of similar to FP1 in that the usual frontrunners are now at the front in this soft-tyre window.

Speaking of soft-tyre runs, Red Bull has fitted a set onto Verstappen's car and straight away he's gone quickest with 34 minutes remaining...

Thanks for that Fil, adding on the action, there are resemblances to FP1 which early on had a few random names at the top. That's like now with Bearman and Hadjar being the top two.

It wasn't until the soft-tyre runs around the 30-minute mark that the usual suspects stamped their mark.

I'm standing at Latifi Corner, which is a good spot to see this generation of F1 cars in anger one last time. Judging from the pulsating beats emanating from the packed yachts lining Yas Marina behind, not everyone shares our interest in FP2.

But we're hearing there has been a last minute surge in interest in this weekend after the events of Las Vegas and Qatar. A lot of fans and VIPs made a late effort to be here for the decider.

And it's dangerous to extrapolate too much from a single corner sequence, but you probably don't need us to tell you the Ferrari looks a handful.

It's been a very busy opening 15 minutes with 19 drivers currently on track. All three compounds are in use as well, mostly the mediums, with Hadjar currently top on the softs.

Norris is fastest of those with the mediums and Hulkenberg on the hards.

Isack Hadjar, Racing Bulls Team

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Verstappen caught out by Norris behind after receiving mixed messages from Lambiase over whether the McLaren was on a fast lap or not.

"What's this guy doing?", was Norris' response. Mind games already started?

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

ICYMI - Exclusive: Lindblad on his F1 graduation and telling Norris 'I would see him in five years'

By graduating to Racing Bulls in 2026, Britain's Arvid Lindblad has delivered on his own childhood vision that he would somehow make it to Formula 1. Speaking exclusively to Autosport, he tells all about his ambition, his Swedish-Indian family heritage and a promise he made to Lando Norris.

And Bearman is now replaced at the top by another driver on the soft tyre which is Hadjar.

It's no surprise that the quickest time is currently set by one of only two drivers on the soft tyre: Bearman with a 1m24.744s.

Ocon is also on softs with the rest on mediums apart from Hulkenberg and Colapintio, who have hard rubber.

The hard tyre was predominantly used in the early stages of FP1, but the medium rubber seems the most popular for this more representative second session. It's already a busy track.

Several drivers in contention for the F1 title going into the season finale? We've been here before... As Lando Norris, Max Verstappen and Oscar Piastri prepare to battle for the 2025 world championship, here’s how it previously panned out...

Who else was in the team principal press conference? Obviously Red Bull's Laurent Mekies with Verstappen also a title contender. But it wasn't all questions about the championship fight, because this week the Austrian outfit announced Hadjar as Verstappen's team-mate for 2026 meaning Tsunoda is without a seat.

On the matter of Tsunoda and his chances of returning to F1, Mekies said: "We have tried everything we could to to support Yuki. At some stage we had to make the difficult call between where we were seeing that going for for the following years. "I hope and I think that Yuki will get another chance. He will be reserve driver with us next year, you never know what's going to happen.

"We have been we have been quite famous in making fairly swift driver decisions in the past. So, look, when I recall one moment at the end of the season 2024, Yuki was was driving very well. It was very difficult for him to digest."

Yuki Tsunoda, Red Bull Racing, Laurent Mekies, Red Bull Racing Team Principal

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

McLaren's Zak Brown was also in the Abu Dhabi team boss press conference and he was asked about the prospect of team orders between Lando and Oscar come Sunday.

“In the sense of team orders, as long as both drivers have a chance to win the world championship – which they clearly do sitting here right now – then it's business as usual, they're free to race,” said Brown.

“Obviously we’ll be practical and realistic. If, as the weekend develops, as the race develops, it becomes clear that one has a significantly better chance than another, then we're a team that wants to win the drivers' championship, and we will race accordingly to do whatever we can to get whatever that driver is in front to try and win the race.

“Our team orders have been around giving equal opportunity to win the championship, but as the race plays out, if it becomes clear that both can't, then we're going to do what's in the best interest of the team and try and win the drivers' championship.”

Away from the title picture, it was a strong FP1 for Sauber as Hulkenberg finished fifth with Bortoleto seventh. It will be the final race for the Swiss squad before it becomes the Audi works team next year.

Over to team principal Jonathan Wheatley, who said: "We have Peter Sauber [team founder] with us this weekend. Peter and I get on brilliantly.

"What we want to do is sign off on this incredible journey in Formula 1 for the Sauber name by making him as proud as we can on Sunday and putting to bed respectfully the Sauber legacy as we move forward into becoming the Audi F1 team."

Nico Hulkenberg, Sauber

Photo by: Andy Hone/ LAT Images via Getty Images

No doubt the McLaren driver will be happy to be back for FP2...

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

We all know what's at stake this weekend with Norris, Verstappen and Piastri all fighting for the title.

The Aussie may be on the back foot though after skipping FP1 as part of F1's young driver mandate. Norris and Verstappen were the top two in the relatively uneventful session:

Hello, and welcome to live commentary of second practice for this weekend's Abu Dhabi GP!
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp1--1126159/1126160/
DATE: 2025

That's all from us - we'll see you a bit later for FP2, which should be a bit more representative! See you then!

Hirakawa was quickest of the rookie drivers in 11th, Aron 13th, O'Ward 14th, Lindblad 15th, A. Leclerc 16th, Iwasa 17th, Browning 18th, Crawford 19th, Shields 20th.

There's your last FP1 of the year in the history books. Norris is quickest from Verstappen by just 0.008s.

"We are so slow, no? The car feels like it's got zero grip," Charles Leclerc says - as he's told he's not much quicker than the rest of the midfield.

Piastri can't stifle a yawn, and realises he's been caught on camera.

Browning bowls a wide at Turn 1, so its rookies and experienced drivers alike who are finding the run-off.

Hadjar's got a "jumping" car, and at this point I really don't think these drivers will miss the current cars. Like, at all.

Big spin for Leclerc (Charles) at Turn 5, but he's managed to save it and keep going.

"I think Charles is doing some burnouts for the fans," his brother suggests as he follows him into the corner.

"I think there might be something broken on the car," Verstappen reports. "Where are the main issues?" GP replies, who gets the unhelpful response that "it's everywhere".

Everything's infected with brokenness now.

Crawford finally gets a non-hard tyre lap in, doing a lap on the mediums that gets him up to 18th. Browning goes 17th with a lap on softs, 1s off the pace. Leclerc (Jr) moves up to 18th ahead of the two Astons.

15 minutes remain, and our top 10 is Norris, Antonelli, Leclerc (Sr), Antonelli, Hulkenberg, Russell, Bortoleto, Bearman, Sainz, Colapinto.

Bearman is told that Haas will have to retire the car for the session - a sensor is apparently the issue.

Bearman gets up to eighth after his lay-off in the pits. Continued trouble was suspected by Haas, but the Briton keeps going on the mediums.

Norris nips past Verstappen's time, 0.008s up on the Red Bull thus far on those used softs.

There appears to be something on the ground along the start-finish straight. Debris? Water bottle? Crisp packet?

It looks like a can...a silver and blue can, to be precise. Now, if only there was a drinks brand who used such a colour scheme...

Bearman's back out again, but is being told to pit with potentially the same issue as before.

Lindblad is also back on track after Red Bull changed his floor.

Norris goes second quickest, 0.026s behind Verstappen. Verstappen's gone for another tour, 0.021s down on his best effort. Crawford and Shields almost had a moment at Turn 2, as Shields cut off the racing line late.

Meanwhile, more end-of-year radio hilarity: "You have Leclerc Junior at two seconds," Lambiase tells Verstappen. "I find it quite funny you call him junior," comes Verstappen's reply.

Antonelli moves up to third now. Norris aborted his lap on the softs, so he's used it as a prep lap and he's going again - he had a snap at Turn 3.

Russell goes second with a 1m24.733s, 0.24s down on Verstappen's opener on softs, while Hulkenberg moves up to third - also on softs.

Lindblad is in the pits and his (well, Tsunoda's) car is getting some attention from the mechanics.

Verstappen's on softs now, seeing what he can do on a quick lap. He sets a 1m24.493s to go top over Hadjar.

Arthur Leclerc saves his Ferrari from a snap at Turn 12, and brushes the run-off.

Moment of minor hilarity when Russell is told "Owasa" is near him on the circuit. "I think that's O'Ward, not O'Wasa", the Mercedes driver replies.

Hirakawa goes up to ninth on the hard tyre, covering for the lack of running at Haas as Bearman is in the bits. He states that he's got "annoying" bouncing, which is very much the situation with these cars...

Bortoleto goes fastest with a 1m25.398s, on the hard tyre - the circuit is cleaning up.

"The grip is really bad, feels like I'm driving on ice" - Lindblad giving a Verstappen-esque appraisal of an early-weekend Red Bull.

Bearman got back to the pits, ready for his team to inspect the issue at play.

"I've lost power," Bearman reports. There's a leak in the system, so he'll hope he can crawl back to the pitlane.

Hulkenberg goes top with a 1m25.439s, 0.015s up on Norris.

Browning's getting a new radio after the earlier issues, hence why he's not got a timed lap in so far.

Elsewhere in rookie-watch, O'Ward is seventh, Lindblad 13th, Aron 14th, then Hirakawa, Leclerc (A), Iwasa, Crawford, and Shields.

Norris does a fast final sector to set a 1m25.454s, returning to the top. Verstappen's got a good middle sector, and that's second for him.

Sainz goes top on the hard tyre, setting a 1m25.712s. Top four all closely matched at the minute, although this session means basically nothing given the circuit conditions.

Leclerc The Elder moves up to sixth, until Antonelli posts the fastest time of the session and does a 1m25.708s.

A few shuffles at the top; Lindblad was very briefly top of the charts, but Norris throws down a 1m25.764s on the mediums to go top. Hulkenberg just a fraction behind on the same tyre as it stands.

O'Ward then goes up to second on the softs, before Russell nudges ahead of the IndyCar star.

Verstappen sets a 1m27.130s on the hard tyre to go fastest, despite a smidgen of traffic. Shields blocked him a little bit there.

Meanwhile, both Alpine drivers have a wobble out of the final corner, while Browning has a bit of radio trouble and struggled to hear that Hadjar was coming.

Iwasa kicks us off with a 1m29.850s on the hard tyre, beaten by O'Ward's 1m27.398s on the softs. Sainz, Lindblad, and Antonelli also get their first laps in.

The Racing Bulls duo head out first - Hadjar from Iwasa, followed by O'Ward - in Piastri's McLaren for this session.

Lindblad and one of the Leclercs is on the road - Arthur, not Charles!

Not long until FP1 now, and we'll get to see a(nother) glimpse of next year's new rookie driver in Arvid Lindblad.

The rest are seasoned FP1 drivers at this point, bar Cian Shields - but the Scotsman has been doing some TPC running with Aston Martin this year.

Lando Norris, Max Verstappen, and Oscar Piastri were together in the press conference yesterday, to a packed out media room.

Here's how it went down on Thursday:

Eight of the 10 teams still have FP1 rookie quotas to fulfil - they'll check that box in this session, one of the less representative sessions as it's held in the day. Here's the list of FP1 swaps.

McLaren - Pato O'Ward in for Oscar PiastriRed Bull - Arvid Lindblad in for Yuki TsunodaFerrari - Arthur Leclerc in for Lewis HamiltonWilliams - Luke Browning in for Alex AlbonRacing Bulls - Ayumu Iwasa in for Liam LawsonAston Martin - Jak Crawford in for Lance Stroll, Cian Shields in for Fernando AlonsoHaas - Ryo Hirakawa in for Esteban OconAlpine - Paul Aron in for Pierre Gasly

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Hello everyone - and welcome to our live coverage of the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix weekend.

So, we're here. 23 races done, one to go. 12 points separating the top two in the championship, 16 points separating the top three. And it all begins here in FP1!

The Driver World Champion's trophy...who will have their signature etched upon it next?

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-updates-media-day/1126145/
DATE: 2025

That's all from us this afternoon - join us again tomorrow as we cover off the practice sessions, and assess how the race weekend is shaping up! Thanks for joining, and we'll see you then!

You can stay in touch with everything F1 from Abu Dhabi with the following schedule (all Abu Dhabi local times):

FP1: 13:30, FP2: 17:00SATURDAY

FP3: 14:30, Q: 18:00SUNDAY

Yuki Tsunoda says he was told after Qatar that Red Bull would not be keeping him for 2026; understandably, he was left disappointed by the news that he would not be racing next year.

He says that his Red Bull contract didn't allow him to pursue leads elsewhere, but added that his only regret in moving up to the brand's main team was that he missed out on a "pretty good f***ing car" with Racing Bulls.

"I'm disappointed obviously and pissed off and how I was told was it was right after the race, from Helmut, yeah privately, that I'm not going to race next year so I think that's it.

"But surprisingly I'm okay, I mean not okay but like I'm surviving okay, like the day after, the morning I ordered breakfast as usual, same food," Tsunoda said.

"Probably I'm not recognising enough that it will be the last race for this year or at least for next year so yeah, maybe I'll feel more after Abu Dhabi, but yeah, that's how it went and how I feel now."

On having only one regret: "Probably I was saying that I didn't have any regrets. The only regret I have is missing out that pretty good f***ing car, but also throwing away your kids, your baby, because it's the car that I developed with the team throughout the years since we had this regulation and I'm sure there's my DNA inside as well."

Yuki Tsunoda, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lewis Hamilton says that he supported Ferrari's decision to stop development in 2025 and that a dip in performance was anticipated - but it "felt worse" living through it.

Hamilton's demeanour has not been one of great enthusiasm of late as Ferrari's results have dropped away from the other top-four teams, but he says it hasn't taken a long-term toll.

"I mean, it didn't have a psychological effect on me personally. I didn't know at the end of the year we'd be where we are, no. We anticipated it, but it felt worse, naturally," Hamilton said.

"But I was a part of pushing Fred - we can't fall behind the others in terms of that development for the new car, because it's a steep learning curve for all of us. So I supported it 100%.

"I still do. I think it was the right decision. Particularly where we were already with the car, we weren't fighting for a championship."But it's just meant that it's been harder to maintain the performance, at least some of the performance we had at the beginning of the year. I can't answer the question for the rest of the team. I think everyone's stayed really positive in my experience. So I've not seen a psychological effect."

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Kimi Antonelli opened up on the abuse he received in the wake of the Qatar Grand Prix, as a torrent of horrific social media comments was sent his way following misplaced accusations about losing a place to Lando Norris.

Red Bull's Gianpiero Lambiase suggested to Max Verstappen that Antonelli let Norris through, a statement echoed by advisor Helmut Marko. Both apologised for their comments afterwards.

"It was not easy to get all those kind of comments, after the race, especially for something that I would never do such as waving past a competitor," Antonelli said.

"I was fighting for P3. At the end of the day, I was pushing hard and I was trying to get into the DRS of Sainz.

"After so many laps in dirty air I'm pushing so hard, the mistake arrived, because I obviously every lap I was pushing a bit more and more to get closer and I arrived to the point where the tyre gave up. At that moment I did a mistake and Lando passed me and, you know, then after the race to receive those kind of comments, definitely it hurt.

On Red Bull's apology: "It was nice to see the Red Bull statement, also GP came to talk to me as well and we clarified, I also clarified with Max and that was nice.

"But apart from that, after that I got a lot of support which was nice and definitely also it helped to kind of forget what happened and focus on onto this weekend."

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Norris has done quite a bit of the talking so far in this press conference and, asked if McLaren had discussed the chance of one driver helping the other, both drivers said that this hadn't been part of the team's preparation.

Norris added: "I haven't asked for it and I don't want to ask for it. If I was asked to help Oscar I think I would, because that's just the way I am, but yeah, I haven't asked for it."

Both McLaren drivers have their families at the track, while Verstappen does not - stating that "everything was cancelled after Zandvoort". His father Jos is rallying in Kenya this weekend, and his mother "is at home with the dogs".

Lando Norris, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

The final Thursday press conference of the year - and it's a packed room with questions for Max Verstappen, Lando Norris, and Oscar Piastri.

Norris: "Nothing changes, just some reviews of last weekend, what was clearly not good for us and the mistakes we made, and what we could improve on. but that's normal post-weekend understanding. But nothing does change, for everyone in the team, just more excitement."

Verstappen: "Spent some time with my daughter, figured some stuff for GT3 for next year, sim team planning for next year. Pretty straightforward stuff!"

Piastri: "I wasn't organising GT3 teams! I played some padel, and treated it as normal. Not that many days in between, had a marketing day, so that's been it!"

Speaking in the press conference, both George Russell and Charles Leclerc shared their experiences of the past four years.

Russell spoke about Mercedes' initial difficulties and having to play catch-up, while Leclerc explained that Ferrari's bright start to 2022 was undone by its porpoising.

Russell on Mercedes' 2022-25 fortunes: "I think we started in the wrong place, it lead us down and had to revert. Red Bull had almost a six-month, eight-month headstart while we were trying to work [porpoising] out."

Leclerc on Ferrari's lack of progress from 2022: "I agree, I think for us there are many reasons which played a role. In 2022 we started quite well but had porpoising. Red Bull had a very stable platform but were overweight, and when they took off that weight they were suddenly at the level where they've been since then.

"We focused very early on next year's car which I hope is a bet that it'll be a winning one. For sure it has some influence through the past two-thirds of the season we've been struggling because we didn't bring that many updates. It's been a generation of car that has even very difficult to understand. Bringing parts from the factory I think everyone has been surprised more than once that it doesn't correlate exactly."

Charles Leclerc, Ferrari

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Earlier this season, Fernando Alonso stated that he'd celebrate not having to drive this year's AMR25 car - and has his eyes keenly on 2026 when he'll get access to a car influenced by Adrian Newey for the first time.

He says that 2026 might need to be used to "glue everything together" but is confident Aston Martin has the right people on board.

"Yeah, I think we're happy to say bye-bye to this year and obviously we've been not as fast as we were hoping," Alonso said.

"2024 was a tough and and challenging season and 2025 was just the, the big brother of that, so we're struggling and we don't hide from that. It's the last race.

"We want to finish in the best possible position and help the team in the constructors' championship, but yeah, looking forward to next year for sure.

"I mean, the factory is completed, wind tunnel is brand new and completed, and we are using it. We have Adrian Newey, Andy Cowell, Enrico Cardile, we have great people and great talent in the factory, We just need, you know, to put everything in place. There are new facilities, people are just a few months into the system.

"It won't be enough with these few months, so we need one full season to glue everything together."

Fernando Alonso, Aston Martin Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Pierre Gasly admits to being torn - at least, in the moment - on Alpine's decision to sacrifice almost all development in 2025 to progress in 2026, but believes the decision is "for the better".

Alpine has been rooted to the bottom of the constructors' standings, with Gasly having scored all of the team's 22 points. He reckoned that if the team had brought updates, it might have been in the reckoning for a higher constructors' finish, but at the detriment of next year.

"Many times I look at the ranking and I'm like, 'OK, what if we had this on the car, what if we had that..."

"I think what I care about at the end is just making sure that I'm able to provide my best, my best to the team, Because ultimately I want to achieve much bigger things in F1. I just want to know that I'm able to do it whenever the moment comes to me.

"It's always nicer if you can be 6th or 5th or 4th instead of 9th. I must say I'm quite happy that the team took this very aggressive approach, and I think I would have been slightly more annoyed if we would have tried to push the development 2-3 months further to actually get what, 8th, 9th in the championship, and actually affect next year.

"I'm quite optimistic and and confident for next year just based on the sort of decisions we took. It was a rough, eight months and it hasn't been really fun, But I think it's for the better."

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Ollie Bearman addressed the abuse that fellow F1 rookie Kimi Antonelli received in the wake of the Qatar Grand Prix, calling those responsible the "scum of the earth".

Antonelli was wrongly accused of moving out of the way of Lando Norris in Qatar by senior Red Bull figures and, although they apologised for their remarks, it was too late to stop the 19-year-old Italian from receiving a deluge of unwarranted abuse.

"Generally it's always the case that people [who abuse others] behind the screen are horrible and they're scum of the earth, really. I don't think they should be doing that type of stuff to someone.

"You know, like, I understand that people who've been in F1 for a very long time can get used to it and people who are rookies, it may be their first experience, you know, having that type of criticism, but that criticism is an absolute joke. It shouldn't be tolerated and I know the FIA are doing everything they can to stop that, but the problem is these sad people giving those types of criticisms. It's a joke, you know.

"We're putting our lives on the line to entertain people and to, you know, give the people who are passionate for the sport a good time and you have people like that who are just hurting people and that's not just racing, that's also their personal life and I just think people are terrible. "

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes, Oliver Bearman, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Dom Gibbons / LAT Images via Getty Images

No rest for the wicked, it seems; Esteban Ocon and Ollie Bearman will be flying to Italy after the Abu Dhabi weekend is over to get their first taste of Haas' 2026 car in the Ferrari simulator.

Haas boss Ayao Komatsu wanted both drivers to maintain focus on 2025, and thus has suggested that both drivers hold fire on trying the new car before the season is over.

"As soon as this is finished, we are flying - both me and Ollie - to the team in Maranello, and we are driving the 2026 car," Ocon explained.

"It was very much a team's decision, not for us to focus on the 26 stuff in terms of driving, in terms of, driving style, technique and everything before this season was finished. Ayao was very clear on that.

"He wanted us to focus completely on this season, which is very important for the team. We've done meetings because we had to in terms of technicality and some stuff that we had to decide very early on with the team. But the work for us is going to really start post Abu Dhabi testing."

On Haas' title partnership with Toyota: "It is great news, Toyota is a brand that I really enjoy working with. I'm not saying that because they are working with us, I really mean it; they have great values, they have great respect, they are passionate about racing.

"They are petrolheads basically, and that's so cool to see when we visited them in Japan, they've put us in on the gravel track, and they've put us in the in the craziest track I've ever seen, on the road, and I've tested the WRC car at Goodwood. It's fantastic honestly to work with them."

Esteban Ocon trying out WRC cars with Takamoto Katsuta

Photo by: Toyota Racing

We've got another bumper crop of younger drivers as the teams look to fill their quota of young drivers (the regular drivers must vacate their seats twice a year in FP1, unless they began the year as a rookie).

McLaren - Pato O'Ward in for Oscar PiastriRed Bull - Arvid Lindblad in for Yuki TsunodaFerrari - Arthur Leclerc in for Lewis HamiltonWilliams - Luke Browning in for Alex AlbonRacing Bulls - Ayumu Iwasa in for Liam LawsonAston Martin - Jak Crawford in for Lance Stroll, Cian Shields in for Fernando AlonsoHaas - Ryo Hirakawa in for Esteban OconAlpine - Paul Aron in for Pierre GaslyMercedes and Sauber have already fulfilled the rules on FP1 drivers.

Arvid Lindblad, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Michael Potts / LAT Images via Getty Images

Alex Albon has heaped praise on his Williams team for delivering a car with which he was able to enjoy his best F1 season. Albon opened the year with fifth place in Australia, and sits ninth in the championship with 73 points.

"I would say my best season yet in many ways I feel like, obviously the car I think it takes credit for most of that," Albon stated.

"I haven't changed so much my application into this year but the car and the, what the guys and girls have done at the factory have made a huge step this year.

"I've been with this team for four years now, and this has been clearly the biggest step out of the four years from year to year. It's been enjoyable, been fun to be able to race against some of the top teams in some certain tracks."

On recent form tailing off: "Towards the end of the year, not ideal, but generally pace has been strong, just either myself, I've made a couple of mistakes - Vegas and Baku kind of stand out to me - but then, the other ones have just not gone my way, just kind of what it was like for Carlos at the beginning of the year."

Alexander Albon, Williams

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Hoping that one of its drivers ends up taking the title, McLaren has made a few colourful addendums to its livery for this year's finale.

McLaren Abu Dhabi GP special livery

Carlos Sainz backed Lando Norris to win this year's F1 title, noting that Abu Dhabi is "a Lando track" and mentioned the Briton's win at the circuit last year.

Norris beat Sainz to the win by 5.5s last season, and will be hoping to close out this year's championship with a similar result.

"I do have an interest obviously and I will be following very closely, closely also I think everyone knows how well I get on with Lando and obviously I wish Lando the best possible outcome in that sense," Sainz remarked.

"I also have a lot of respect for Max and Oscar, and I wish them the best, but I think Abu Dhabi is a Lando track. It's good for him that I think the finale is in Abu Dhabi, which is from my experience being his teammate here is one of his best tracks at driving.

"The win he took last year in front of me still hurts and he dominated last year a race in front of me. It's a Lando track and it's a McLaren track, so I think he, he plays with that advantage.

"Still going into the last weekend, having to finish on the podium is never easy, even if you drive a McLaren and I think he needs to execute a perfect weekend and I believe he, given how well he's responded under pressure recently, I think he can do it."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, Carlos Sainz, Williams

Photo by: Bryn Lennon / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Nico Hulkenberg says he'll be keeping an eye on the screens around the track to follow F1's title battle between Max Verstappen, Lando Norris, and Oscar Piastri.

The German praised Verstappen for his recent form, and reckons his experience in battling for titles will stand the four-time champion in good stead.

"He's had such a good run recently, so strong with no mistakes and just absolutely been been flawless and and killing it," Hulkenberg said.

"He's behind, 12 points is quite a lot, but obviously we know mathematically it's possible and we know crazy things can happen. I think he obviously knows how to fight for a title, and I think pressure is not an issue for him.

"He's got nothing to lose really."

Nico Hulkenberg, Sauber

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Gabriel Bortoleto has had his share of rookie moments over 2025, but he's also been able to prove his worth at Sauber across the season with plenty of impressive moments through the year.

The Brazilian picked Hungary, where he finished sixth, as his best race of the year.

"Main highlights, I can't forget to say Budapest. I think it was so far my best race of the season," he said.

"I think [it was a] great quali - Q3 - and then making a move in lap 1 and then having very good management of the tyres and finishing the race in P6. It was great because I think that was pure pace and, and very enjoyable.

"There were many other races, you know, Austria first points, Monza, Spa - I think they were very good races as well."

Gabriel Bortoleto, Sauber

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Some early news from the weekend: Haas has a new title sponsor for 2026. Toyota picks up the title deal from MoneyGram under its Toyota Gazoo Racing motorsport brand - and thus, the team will race as TGR Haas F1 Team next year.

Good morning folks, and welcome to the start of our live coverage of F1's season finale at the Yas Marina Circuit - and we've got a three-way title decider coming our way!

Who's going to win: Norris, Verstappen, or Piastri? It'll be a thrill-a-minute ride on Sunday night.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Ahmad AlShehab / NurPhoto via Getty Images
