======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/masi-sainz-pitlane-investigation-delay/4927254/
DATE: 2020

McLaren driver Sainz was placed under investigation by the race stewards in the F1 season finale for a possible slow entry to the pit lane, holding up Racing Point’s Lance Stroll.

Despite an uneventful race and plenty of time to complete the investigation, the stewards confirmed they would only look at the matter after the race.

It meant McLaren had to wait for a decision before it could officially celebrate third place in the constructors’ championship, with Sainz provisionally finishing sixth behind teammate Lando Norris.

after estimating Sainz only slowed enough to lose 0.6 seconds in the pit lane. They also accepted the Spaniard’s explanation that he slowed down in response to the busy pit lane under the Virtual Safety Car.

Masi explained after the race that the stewards were eager to review all of available information in the incident, reasoning the decision to postpone the investigation.

"There was some data that was necessary that we wanted to get hold of, so that takes obviously a little bit longer to get,” Masi said.

“As a result, it was easier to look at it completely after the race, once we had all of that available information, and was also helpful getting the perspectives of the respective drivers.”

Asked by Motorsport.com how “unnecessarily slow” was determined by the stewards, Masi said it was down to their judgement.

“Driving unnecessarily slowly in the pit lane comes about as a result of a discussion with all of the teams sporting directors and the stewards earlier this year,” Masi said.

“So as long as we had to look at it all, it’s a judgement. It’s why we have stewards.”

Stroll was told to “blend” into the fast lane of the pit lane after his pit stop as Sainz came past, and appeared to narrowly avoid an Alfa Romeo mechanic who was stood in the next pit box.

Masi confirmed the stewards did note and look into the incident, but determined no investigation necessary.

“It was looked at, but it wouldn’t be classified as an unsafe release,” Masi said.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mclaren-close-gap-mercedes-2021/4926820/
DATE: 2020

The Woking-based outfit pipped rival Racing Point for the best-of-the-rest slot behind the top two teams in the F1 season finale in Abu Dhabi last weekend.

The result, coming off the back of , comes amid suggestions that McLaren could make a big step forward as it switches to Mercedes engines next season.

But Seidl is cautious about expecting too much from McLaren next year, as he says the team must accept the two outfits ahead of it are still a step clear.

“I think we need to stay realistic,” he said. “Despite the good result we have this weekend and, despite the great outcome for us in the championship side, with P3, I think we know exactly where we are. There's still a huge gap to the cars in front, especially the Mercedes car.”

Seidl does take huge encouragement from the progress that McLaren was able to make with its MCL35 this year, as well as the way in which it executed race weekends and dealt with an aggressive update strategy.

However, with McLaren openly admitting that it needs to improve its wind tunnel, simulation facilities and simulator, Seidl thinks it will take a few years before it can hope to get on terms with teams like Mercedes.

“I think the most important thing is to first of all see that the team this year, under the leadership of James Key, has produced a very competitive car,” he explained. “It is a step forward compared to last year.

“It was great to see also that despite all these challenges in the pandemic, that the team kept pushing flat out back home in engineering, and in production, to continuously bring updates to the track, which in the end, kept improving the performance of the car.

“And of course it's a great finish to the season, knowing that at this track, at this specific event, we had the third fastest car.

“But still, we know what the gap to Mercedes is. It is not something we will close from one year to the next year.

“We still know that we have a lot of deficits within the team in terms of organisation, in terms of infrastructure, which we need to close first.

“But again, we have a clear plan of how we want to reduce these deficits. It will take time. But I'm confident that if we do the right things on the team side, we can close these gaps in some years.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/norris-surprised-by-small-gap-to-abu-dhabi-gp-pole/4925962/
DATE: 2020

Norris qualified fourth for McLaren at the Yas Marina circuit on Saturday, finishing just 0.251 seconds off Max Verstappen's pole position time.

Norris was aided by a fresh Renault power unit in his McLaren car that was fitted for the last race in Sakhir, with most of the grid using engines that are nearing the end of their lives.

Asked by Motorsport.com about his qualifying display and how much of a boost the fresher power unit offered, Norris hailed his qualifying lap as being the best of the season.

"Obviously I've got the new PU in, and it's helping me out a lot more than what it was bringing me down over the last three or four weeks," Norris said.

"Maybe I have half a tenth advantage or something over the whole lap. I'm not two-and-a-half, three-tenths down like the last few weekends, a bit more competitive, which is nice.

"I didn't think that was the help at the end, I think my Q3 lap was just very strong, and just a very nice, tidy lap. It wasn't like it was perfect altogether, but it was definitely my best of the year, I think in terms of getting the tyres in a good window and maximising what we have as a package this weekend.

"It took me by surprise, and probably all of us by surprise, how close we were to pole in the end of the day. I think that was the surprising thing.

"But of course, P4 and the lap I did, I was very happy with. It was a nice way to end qualifying this season."

Team principal Andreas Seidl was eager to review all of the data from qualifying before making a firm judgement of the gap, but remained realistic of the job McLaren must do to catch the leading teams.

"Lando was feeling comfortable with the car all weekend, and in the end, he was building up in qualifying and simply did a brilliant lap as he said, probably one of the best laps he did in qualifying since he became an F1 driver," Seidl said.

"Regarding the gap to both the Red Bull and Mercedes, to be honest, I simply need to wait for more analysis, if we understand if they had any specific issues with their qualifying sessions.

"It's nice to be that close to them, but at the same time we also know where we are compared to these guys. But it's great motivation to have a qualifying like this, the last race of the season, and yeah, another confirmation that we are heading in the right direction as a team.

"We also know that we have a long way to go, so you always need to be realistic as well, as where you are, and about the steps you can make in the next years.

"But we have a very talented and motivated team here at the track and back home, and obviously very happy with the progress we could make this year."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/norris-mclaren-grid-penalty-sakhir-gp/4922483/
DATE: 2020

Norris qualified a lowly 15th on Saturday at the Bahrain International Circuit after mistiming his final lap in Q2, with the gains made by other drivers shuffling him to the bottom of the order.

It left McLaren weighing up a potential change to Norris’s Renault power unit in order to gain fresh parts ahead of the race and the season finale in Abu Dhabi next weekend.

FIA F1 technical delegate Nikolas Tombazis - who is standing in for Jo Bauer this weekend - confirmed ahead of Sunday’s race in Bahrain that McLaren had taken two new parts on Norris’s power unit.

By fitting a fresh engine and turbocharger, Norris’s car has now exceeded the seasonal limit for both parts, triggering a grid penalty.

As a result, Norris will start today’s race from the back of the grid.

The McLaren driver will join Pietro Fittipaldi of Haas on the final row after the Brazilian also took new power unit elements on Saturday.

Although Fittipaldi is making his F1 debut, he continued with regular Haas driver Romain Grosjean’s allocation, meaning the new energy store and control electronics fitted to his car exceeded the season limit.

Both Norris and Fittipaldi have ‘back of grid’ penalties, but as Norris qualified higher, he is due to start ahead of the Haas racer.

Norris’s penalty hands positions to Kevin Magnussen, Nicholas Latifi, Jack Aitken and Kimi Raikkonen on the grid, gaining one place each.

Norris is in need of a fightback to aid McLaren in its push for third place in the constructors’ championship.

McLaren currently sits 17 points clear of Racing Point in the race for third, but has only one car starting in the top 10 courtesy of Carlos Sainz Jr., who will line up eighth in Bahrain.

Sergio Perez qualified fifth in the leading Racing Point, while teammate Lance Stroll will start 10th.

Norris said after qualifying on Saturday that he felt it could be difficult to overtake around the narrow outer loop layout in Bahrain.

“There should be some some good racing, but it's not as easy as everyone thinks it is to overtake here,” Norris said.

“It may look it, but it's not. I think it's going to be a tough race. So there's still going to be some overtaking, but it's not going to be as easy as what people think.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/norris-says-q2-exit-down-to-poor-lap-poor-timing/4922097/
DATE: 2020

The Briton elected to go early for his first effort in Q2, but ended up aborting that lap when he felt that he had already lost too much time in the first sequence of corners.

For his second run, he failed to nail it through the same bends and could not put a representative lap time in – ending up 15th on the grid.

“Q1 run one was alright,” he said. “One mistake on it but it was still a decent lap.

“But Q2 we went out too early, basically, which meant I had to do a very slow out-lap to make sure I didn't catch the traffic at the end or halfway around my lap. That meant the tyres were a little bit on the colder side, and not ideal for Turn 1.

“And when there's only four corners, and the tyres are not in for Turn 1, then you only have three corners to try to make up time and that's not really possible, so I had to abort.

“Then on my second lap, I had no traffic but quite a few people around me in Turn 1 again, which made me lose quite a bit of time. And then just a combination of not driving the perfect lap for the rest of it.

“So, yeah, just not a clean Q2 really. A bit of a mistake from our side as a team in knowing when to go out and start our run, but also my opportunity to put a lap in. I just didn't do the perfect job. So those two things put together made me end up where I was.”

With Norris starting so far down, and with McLaren locked in a tight fight for third place in the constructors’ championship, the team is weighing up fitting a fresh engine and gearbox for the race.

While that would incur a grid penalty that would drop Norris to the back of the grid, it could give him added performance for the final two races of the season. A final decision will be made overnight.

Norris’ teammate Carlos Sainz ended up eighth on the grid, despite picking up some damage in qualifying that hindered his performance.

“There is a bit of a war on this circuit,” said Sainz. “Every time you come back to the pits, you have something broken or something hanging off. But that's the way it is, for how slow we've been all weekend.

"It was the most we could achieve today. It's a good day for us because after FP3 we were looking at 12th and 13th, and we're not so bad. Maybe tomorrow we'll have to look more in the mirror than forward for once, but it's what we have and we'll try to fight for it."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/bahrain-gp-marshal-incident-norris-seidl/4918788/
DATE: 2020

In the wake of Sergio Perez's late race retirement that left his flaming car at the side of the circuit, a fire marshal ran across the track right in front of Norris' car.

Norris came on the team radio and exclaimed his surprise at what happened.

"There's a guy f***ing running across the track.. that's the bravest guy I've ever seen," said the young Briton.

With F1 well aware of the dangers of such situations, with Tom Pryce having been killed after hitting a marshal and his fire extinguisher at the 1977 South African Grand Prix, Seidl says the matter needs to be treated seriously.

However, he has faith that the FIA and F1 race director Michael Masi will do everything that is necessary to address the situation.

"It's obviously concerning if you hear a comment like this from Lando over the radio," said Seidl. "And it's clearly something that should absolutely not happen. But I think as well, it's something that's important to analyse behind closed doors together with the FIA.

"I'm sure Michael is doing that, together with the input he wants from us. I'm sure the right conclusions will be made and we will keep working together on improving safety for our drivers and for all the marshals on the tracks worldwide."

Speaking about the incident afterwards, Norris said that the marshal had been hard to spot against the dark background.

"It was the last thing I was expecting," explained Norris. "The guy didn't look left and right both ways before he crossed the road.

"It was a double yellow. And I was going slow enough, so there was no point in risking anything at all.

"But he wasn't the most visible guy, because at that point, you know, I'm looking to the sky and he's wearing black or dark blue. He wasn't that easy to see, all I kind of saw was a bouncing extinguisher. It was just a bit of a crazy moment."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sainz-very-angry-bahrain-spin/4917670/
DATE: 2020

The Spaniard had looked on course for a strong showing at Sakhir but was put out of qualifying right at the start of Q2 when his rear tyres locked up and pitched him into a spin at the first corner.

McLaren confirmed the spin was caused by a brake failure.

As well as that failure leaving him down in 15th on the grid, the lock up has effectively robbed him of a set of tyres – which will limit his strategy opportunities in the race.

"It leaves us with very few options if we have lost it [the set of tyres] with that lock up,” Sainz told Movistar. “It leaves us with very small options for Sunday. That's why I'm very angry, I'm sorry, but I'm very angry."

As well as being limited on how own tyres, Sainz says that the fact all the Q3 runners will be starting on the medium compound means that there is little chance of gaining in the early phase of the race by doing anything different.

"Yes, you can come back, but it gets very complicated,” he explained. “Especially because the top ten is going to start with the medium, and those of us who start behind them won't have any advantage over them.

“The two sets of medium I had saved... one will be ruined and I'm sure I can't even use it. Which puts me in a bit of a tough spot for the race. We worked hard to save harder tyres for the race and now this happens to us...”

McLaren did not have an immediate answer as to what had gone wrong on Sainz’s car, and whether it was related to the brakes, the transmission or engine.

Team principal Andreas Seidl said: “We still don't know, honestly, we have to analyse it. I think that the rear axle has locked up and there was nothing that Carlos could do.

“It is disappointing because we had a competitive car today. Unfortunately, Lando made a small mistake in Turn 1 on his last attempt and Carlos was in good shape all weekend and it's a shame.

"But that's all there is and now it's time to analyse what happened in Carlos' car, reset, and start again tomorrow. It will be an interesting race, with many challenges, with two stops or more and we must try to come back.”

Additional reporting by Sergio Lillo

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/norris-chaos-turkish-gp-start/4910287/
DATE: 2020

The recent resurfacing of the circuit has left F1 drivers battling against tricky conditions all weekend, with cars sliding around a lot in both the dry and the wet.

And with the surface having had no chance to rubber in thanks to the rain that affected Saturday’s running, things are expected to be just as difficult in the race.

Norris fears, however, that the lack of grip is so bad that it will be hard for drivers to avoid contact on the opening lap tomorrow after the short blast from the grid.

Asked what he expected from the race, Norris said: “I think just quite a risky difficult Turn 1, and probably quite a high possibility of a crash or something.

“We struggle just as much in the dry almost as we do in the wet, to get the tyres in at a good temperature, especially when you're not on soft tyres.

“Also, having the warm up lap, which is going to be the opposite of a warm up lap, you're going to be cooling the tyres down, and it's kind of defeats the object of it. It is going to cause more chaos than I think everyone's almost expecting going into Turn 1.”

The only saving grace for the start, says Norris, is that there is only a short blast down to the first corner so there will not be much chance for anyone to try and risk a dive-bomb move to gain positions.

“I don't think you'll necessarily see anyone diving, because there's not going to be that high speeds,” he added.

“I think it's very easy to make mistakes and probably lock a front tyre or let the rear snap round because the tyres are cold. So it should be exciting. You just have to try and stay out of the carnage.”

Norris’ teammate Carlos Sainz agreed that things were going to be exceptionally difficult on the first lap, and he urged everyone to be sensible.

“I think we all know how slippery and how tricky it is out there,” said the Spaniard. “We've all experienced the conditions, and I think we all know what we can expect from lap one.

“So I hope that everyone just gives each other a bit more space because the mistakes could happen at any time and at any point, without really being intentional.

“It is just that these cars are extremely difficult to control with cold tyres and there could be things happening really without anybody intending it. So let's see what happens.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/norris-imola-start-best-opportunity/4902217/
DATE: 2020

The run from the Imola grid to the first braking area is one of the longest of the season, but is made trickier by a track that curves to the left and is relatively narrow.

Both McLaren drivers made spectacular progress in the tricky conditions at the start of last weekend’s Portuguese GP, with both men gaining four places on the first lap. At Imola Norris starts from ninth, a place ahead of Sainz.

“It's going to be the main place, lap one down to Turn One,” said Norris when asked about the Imola start by Motorsport.com.

“It is quite a long straight. It'll be our best opportunity to gain multiple positions if we can, but everyone's thinking that at the same time.

“So we just need to make sure we at least make it through the first few corners, and try and go from there and push forward.

“But at the same time we don't know 100% what the racing is going to be like, how easy it's going to be to overtake.

"I don't think it's going to be maybe as unpredictable and as exciting as what it was in Portugal last week, just because it's a bit more normal this weekend, with how the tyres are working and the tarmac and the wind and everything.

“And lap one it’s the best opportunity, and Turn One is the best opportunity on every other lap as well.”

Norris’s teammate Carlos Sainz cautioned that the run to the first corner could get crowded at the start.

“The only thing that I would say is quite narrow into Turn One and Two,” said the Spaniard. “I don't think there's actually that much space to make a lot of moves, or to go three side-by-side. I think maximum two. It's a chicane, that Turn Two and Three.

“These cars are big, especially now looking at the images on the TV, compared to back in the day in 2006, you can really appreciate how the cars are around this circuit. So that's going to make everything a bit more tricky.

“It's going to be a tricky race, obviously 10th is not ideal, that everyone behind you has a new set of tyres and on the chance to choose a strategy, and everyone in front of you is basically on the same strategy or similar. But in the race anything can happen.”

In last weekend’s Portuguese three drivers received five-second penalties for multiple track limits offences, and Norris believes that could be an issue once more after 68 lap times were deleted on Saturday.

“It probably will be,” he said. “The thing is some of the corners here are really good. So, exit of the last corner, exit of Turn 6, I think it is, are just gravel. So there's no chance to run off, you have an exit kerb, and you have gravel. I went off already a couple times, just dipping a wheel in the gravel, and that's punishing enough.

“But then you have some like Turn 9 probably being the biggest example where you can run off. The thing is it has to change all the time from what motorbikes are allowed, to what we are allowed. And it has to please both parties.

“So ideally, we would have it so it's like the exit of the last corner, where there's just gravel, and if you go off, you go off, and it's kind of game over. But it's the way it is. So there's probably going to be a lot of warnings and penalties.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mclaren-upgrades-next-step-portugal/4898418/
DATE: 2020

With Carlos Sainz having been left with  of the updates at the Nurburgring, the team has had a much smoother time at the Algarve circuit.

And after locking out the fourth row of the grid with Sainz in seventh on the grid and Lando Norris eighth, McLaren is upbeat that its performance this weekend has shown the upgrade is working.

Team boss Andreas Seidl said: “I'm happy that we could make a next step in terms of understanding this new nose box concept that we're using.”

Sainz said he felt much more on top of the car this weekend than he had been last time out in Germany.

“The car has been competitive all weekend,” he said. “Especially from my side, I'm much happier with the feeling of the car this weekend and it looks like we as a team, we've done a very good job to understand what happened last weekend.

“The car I was driving here was definitely giving me a much better feeling and I have had an easier weekend.”

Sainz’s comments were backed up by Norris, who says the step forward has come from simply a better understanding of what’s needed to get the most out of the upgrades.

“I think we have a better understanding from Germany,” he said. “There was nothing bad about what we had in Germany, we just didn't have enough time to understand it completely, because of only having one practice session.

“We've come into this weekend with a better understanding, with a better knowledge of how to maximise the package. And I think that's what we've done so far this weekend.”

The McLaren update has so far revolved around a new nose box concept, which is similar to the design used by Mercedes.

With that element now working, McLaren has been evaluating further changes to its car – with tests of new components having been conducted in Friday practice in Portugal.

Seidl added: “We started the race weekend with the initial package of this new nose box concept which Lando ran at the Nurburgring.

“Then we tested additional parts to see how they performed together with this new aero concept, which was positive.

“But these parts are supposed to be introduced in future races, and in the end we continued with the same configuration on both cars, which is pretty much the one Lando used at the Nurburgring.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mclaren-new-covid-protocols-complacency/4896253/
DATE: 2020

Mercedes had to bring replacement staff from the UK after , while Racing Point driver Lance Stroll missed the race and then .

McLaren boss Andreas Seidl says that the positive tests were a “wake-up call”, and led to the Woking outfit reviewing its procedures and doing even more to separate team members – including drivers Carlos Sainz and Lando Norris – on race weekends.

McLaren was the focus of the season's first COVID scare when a team members tested positive at the Australian GP.

“I think with everything that FIA together with F1 and the teams has put in place I think has shown that it is possible to do it in a safe way,” said Seidl when asked by Motorsport.com if the recent cases had impacted McLaren’s planning.

"I think from the first race onwards, we had very strict procedures and policies in place within our team, following also the guidelines that are in place from the FIA side.

“The most important thing is as a team that you will simply make sure you don't get complacent on all these procedures you have in place, sticking to the bubbles, making sure you always keep the distance and so on. And what we simply did again.

“After what happened at the Nurburgring, that's just another wake-up call for the entire team to make sure we don't get complacent and we stick to our procedures that we have in place.

“We did some additional measures now for here again, in terms of separating the people even more, as far as it is possible, in the offices and in the garages.

“We did another step also with the drivers to separate them even more from the team during the race weekend, simply to make sure we do what is possible to do together with this testing machine which is in place.”

Seidl confirmed that McLaren has staff on standby at home.

“As a team, we would be in a position to replace a certain number of people and functions, but it's also clear there's a limit of what you can do and still stay operational as a race team.

"So far, we have been lucky and didn't have an outbreak yet on our side. Hopefully it stays like that with all the protocols we have in place.”

Regarding the rest of the season and the trip to the Middle East, he added: “If you look ahead, of course, we're obviously monitoring what's ongoing in the world and in Europe. We have a permanent dialogue with FIA and F1.

"But again, I think with the procedures we have in place and with the protocols, I think we feel all safe in order to go ahead with the races coming. That's how we see that the moment.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/what-is-f1-parc-ferme-police/6863921/
DATE: 2021

In F1, the teams are constantly pushing the boundaries (and trying to ‘flex’ the rules) while the governing body, the FIA, constantly tries to keep the reigns tight and ensure everyone is playing fair.

A key part of this process is running legality checks on the cars in parc fermé and restricting the teams to parc fermé conditions during the weekend – but what exactly does this mean and how does it affect the teams?

The term parc fermé is a French phrase that translates literally as ‘closed park.’ It traditionally refers to a secure area at a circuit where cars are checked over by scrutineers for legality and safety.

The checks include weight and dimensional measurements, which are carried out using laser technology, as well as equipment checks in which homologation labels are viewed to ensure parts are pre-tested and meet relevant standards.

In modern F1, parc fermé also refers to certain periods of time during a Grand Prix weekend when the cars are in their garages but are placed under the eye of a scrutineer and teams are restricted in the work they can do on them.

Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes, arrives in Parc Ferme after the Sprint

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Parc fermé is a cordoned-off zone, controlled by the FIA with limited access for the teams. It is located by the FIA garages, usually near the podium so the top three finishers can easily get from there to the ceremony after the race.

No work can be done on a car in this zone, but three mechanics and suitable equipment must be present to shut down the systems, keep the machinery cool and support the scrutineers throughout the checking process.

In contrast, when cars are placed in parc fermé conditions they could be either out on track or in the pit garages. The teams can touch them, but they can only make certain specified changes.

Teams are called to visit parc fermé or required to work under parc fermé conditions many times through the weekend.

At the start of the weekend, each team self-scrutineers its car and declares it legal but to make sure they are telling the truth, the FIA calls at least six cars in for checks at parc fermé after practice.

Teams are free to modify their cars as they wish (within the rules) right up to the start of qualifying but as soon as the green light goes for Q1, all cars are placed under parc fermé conditions from then until the start of the race.

Any car that is knocked out of qualifying in Q1 or Q2 will go back to the team’s garage, where it will be held under parc fermé conditions and remain under the watchful eye of a steward whenever the team is present.

Any cars that run in Q3 must go to the physical parc fermé after the session for legality and safety checks. They are then released back to the garage with a scrutineer, again under parc fermé conditions.

After the race, all classified finishers must go straight to parc fermé for legality and safety checks. This takes 1-2 hours, sometimes longer, after which the cars are released back to the teams. One car will be chosen at random to stay for a deeper inspection.

The potential for irregularities to be spotted and resulting penalties to be handed out means the actual race result is not decided and confirmed until long after the champagne is sprayed.

The car of Daniel Ricciardo, McLaren MCL35M, in Parc Ferme

Photo by: Charles Coates /

Before each car leaves the pit lane for qualifying, the teams will provide the FIA Technical Delegate with a set-up sheet. This is the exact set-up they must stick to for the rest of qualifying and the race.

Teams can do certain maintenance work under parc fermé conditions, including replacing parts like-for-like, but they are not allowed to modify any part on the car or change the suspension set-up.

One scrutineer is allocated to stay with each car and ensure no unauthorised work is carried out at all times under parc fermé conditions. If the rules are broken, that car will have to start the race from the pit lane.

The FIA regulations list more than 20 different specific jobs that can be done to the car while under parc fermé conditions. Anything not on the list requires special written permission.

Engines can be started, fuel added or removed and a fuel breather fitted and spark plugs can be removed to allow internal engine inspections and cylinder compression checks. Energy storage devices can also be charged or discharged.

The brake system can be bled, engine oil can be drained, compressed gases can be drained or added and other fluids can be drained or replenished as long as the replacement fluid is the same specification as the original.

Wheels, fasteners and tyres can be removed, changed or rebalanced and tyre pressures checked. Heating or cooling devices can be fitted and a jump battery can be connected so the electronics can be accessed via a physical connection.

The front wing can be adjusted using existing parts but no parts can be added, removed or replaced. Bodywork can be removed, cosmetic changes can be made, tape can be added and any part of the car can be cleaned.

Onboard cameras, marshalling systems and timing transponders can be removed, refitted or checked. Changes can also be made to the mirrors, seat belts and pedals and the drinks bottle can be filled up to a maximum of 1.5 litres.

Any parts removed to carry out work or safety checks must be kept close to the car in sight of the assigned scrutineer. Everything must be refitted back as it was before the car leaves the pit lane.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, arrives in Parc Ferme after Qualifying

Photo by: Charles Coates /

The rules permit the ‘repair of genuine accident damage’ but exactly how this is defined is a rather grey area.

Cars often require touching up after qualifying as the areas closest to the track – such as the floor, diffuser or front wing – can get damaged from hitting kerbs or debris. If a driver has an off, it could be a lot more work than that.

Teams must send a written request to the FIA Technical Delegate in which they will clearly define any replacement parts they need to fit. These have to be ‘the same in design and similar in mass, inertia and function’ to the original.

Repairs must be done – just like any work that is carried out in parc fermé conditions – in the presence of the assigned scrutineer, and any of the parts that are removed are retained by the FIA.

In emergency situations – like mid-qualifying or on the grid – changes can be made without written permission as long as it is fair to believe permission would be given and any parts removed are seen by the scrutineer.

Certain parts must be used for a set number of races before being replaced, otherwise the team will be penalised. This penalty will be handed out whether the change required is down to a crash, a breakdown or for performance.

Gearboxes must be used for at least six races before they can be changed. If a team needs to change one before that, they face a grid penalty. If a team needs to change a chassis, they will have to start from pit lane.

The power unit is more complicated as it is split into different component parts. Each driver is only permitted a certain number of each element within the power unit during the season, but can replace them whenever they want.

They are allowed no more than three engines, three motor generator units-heat (MGU-H), three turbochargers, two energy stores, two control electronics, three motor generator units-kinetic (MGU-K) and eight sets of engine exhaust systems.

If they use more than the assigned number of any one of the elements, they are handed a grid place penalty. This is 10 places for the first request of each part, 5 for the second, and a back of the grid start if more than 15 is amassed.

The FIA attaches seals to all parts of a team’s power unit before it is used for the first time. This defines the engine as a new engine and ensures no significant moving parts can be rebuilt or replaced.

Seals are removed when the engine is in running conditions, but within two hours after the end of post-race parc fermé, all used power unit elements are sealed again to ensure they cannot be run or dismantled between events.

At the next event where that power unit element is used, the FIA removes those seals again and all elements must stay within the garage when not fitted to a car. They cannot be started at any time other than when on a participating car.

Teams have three and a half hours after the end of qualifying to work on the cars before they have to stop for the day. The cars are covered overnight and the FIA applies seals to ensure they are not touched.

In some cases, teams can arrange permission from the Technical Delegate to keep one car out for marketing purposes, but no work can be done on it and it must be covered and sealed no more than two hours after the initial deadline.

On Sunday morning, five hours and 10 minutes before the start of the formation lap, the seals and covers can come off and teams can work on them again, still of course under parc fermé conditions.

An hour before the race begins, all the teams are informed of what work the other teams have done during this period of parc fermé conditions – which can make for some interesting reading.

F1 driver on the grid in the rain

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Cars set up for dry conditions cannot easily be run in the wet, so if the weather changes or looks likely to change, Race Control can declare a ‘change of climactic conditions’ and relax the parc fermé conditions a little.

Teams can then change brake ducts and radiator ducts to reduce or increase cooling and alter the pitot tubes used for measurement. They can also change the headrest around the driver, as there are three different types suitable for three different temperature ranges.

On the grid, if conditions are deemed wet enough to declare it a ‘wet race’ the teams can change from the set of slick tyres allocated for the race and fit full wets or intermediate rain tyres ready for the start.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/insiders-guide-why-are-f1-pit-stops-so-fast/6816459/
DATE: 2021

It now takes around three seconds to change all four tyres on an F1 car and get it back out into the race. Blink and you will miss it. The speed is incredible – but it does not happen by chance.

pitstops are such a vital part of F1 strategy that the teams practice them a lot. Every element must come together, and the key to success is not just speed but consistency. So, exactly what does it take to perform it to perfection?

Winning in F1 is all about executing a highly tuned plan. The same applies to poker. See where your game plan can get you. Click  to start your game plan.

18+, New UK players only, min £10 deposit, Full T&Cs Apply, begambleaware.org, Play Responsibly

More than 20 people actively participate in an F1 pitstop. This team has a fixed line-up, with each individual assigned a very specific role. They are all mechanics working on other jobs on either car, but together they serve both cars in the pits.

The line-up never changes unless someone is ill or unable to be there, at which point there is a reserve to step in for every position and most team members are also trained in other roles just in case.

Before the season starts, teams perform thousands of practice pitstops on rigs in their factory, honing the team and optimising the different positions. This is actually a competitive process, with mechanics vying for different roles.

The jacks used to lift the car up at the front and back used to be just trolleys, but they are now highly sophisticated. They lift when a handle is pushed down and have an auto-drop mechanism to shave off fractions of time. The front jack also pivots to allow the operator to step out of the way.

Teams may also have a side jack, which is used if the front wing has been damaged, which renders the front jack useless. The front jack is so complex each one costs around £250k – and at least two are needed for backup.

The wheel guns used to remove and tighten the central nut holding each wheel in place are just as complex. They run at 26-bar pressure, rotate at more than 10,000rpm and auto switch from loosen to tighten during operation. Each garage has 24, including spares, and most modify them to improve performance.

Mechanics used to hold their hands up once they were done with their job, but now the guns have a button they press for confirmation. If something goes wrong, the gunner raises their arms in the air in a cross sign.

Red Bull Racing wheel gun detail

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

The actual pitstop is a highly choreographed performance. This is how it is done and who does what, step-by-step.

1. The front jack man (x1) is the first to get into the action, sliding the jack under the car, pushing down on the handle to lift it up then pivoting to the side. A second person is ready to step in if this one gets knocked over or the jack sticks.

2. The four gunners (x4), armed with wheel guns, follow the car in with the head of the gun so they align perfectly when it stops. Some even have laser guides for pinpoint accuracy. They immediately get to work loosening the wheel.

3. The rear jack man (x1) slides the jack under and lifts the rear of the car.

4. The stabiliser crew (x2) hold each side of the car, around the airbox, to prevent it from wobbling on the jacks. They may also step further forward and lift the car if it has wing damage and the front jack cannot raise it.

5. The wing adjuster crew (x2) on each side of the car use torque adjusters to change the angle of the front wing flaps, if required, to modify the downforce at the front end of the car.

6. The wheel off crew (x4) grab the wheels (wearing gloves – as the rubber is scorching hot), slide them off and get out the way.

7. The wheel on crew (x4) have their hands gripped to the new tyres before the car even arrives. They lift and slide them into position on the axles. The wheel nuts are integral to the wheel, reducing the risk of losing them.

8. The four gunners step in again to tighten the wheel nuts. They click the confirmation buttons on their guns once all is in place.

9. The front and rear jack men release the jacks and the car drops to the floor with a back-cracking thwack. That also sends a confirmation trigger.

10. The pitstop controller (x1), formerly known as the lollipop man, receives all the signals, checks the pit is clear, and releases the car. This used to involve the use of a stop/go sign on the end of a stick (hence lollipop) but the car is now set free by turning the stop/go gantry light from red to green.

Sometimes a car requires more than just new tyres. Teams often clear the sidepods of debris – at some tracks (such as street circuits) more than others – to ensure air gets a clean route into the radiator for cooling.

Another action that occurs relatively often is a front wing change, which typically happens at the start if a driver gets clipped in the wheel-to-wheel action. This can take around 10-15 seconds to complete.

Sometimes electrical issues require a steering wheel swap. The wheel has a quick-release mechanism and in this case two team members will be there to take the wheel from the driver and click on the new one.

Longer jobs, such as suspension checks after an incident, can be painful as time ticks away. If more work is needed, a car will be jacked up and wheeled back into the garage. If it can be fixed quickly, it may go out again to use the race as a test.

Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes W12, makes a pitstop

Photo by: Jerry Andre /

Just like a golfer honing their swing, repetition is key to getting it right every time – and in pitstops that means every millisecond is maximised.

All teams have a practice rig back at their factory, many of which use an electric dummy car. This is where the team goes through the drill time and again. They also practice challenge scenarios – like misalignment, nose changes and so on.

That’s all fine, but at the track every pit lane is different – it might be sloping, have distracting markings or drains, or be closer or further away from the pit gantry. These may seem tiny things, but they can have a big effect.

To get used to these unique differences, teams set aside time every day of a race weekend – including race day morning – for practice. The car is pushed into position and the crew perform as they would in the race. Each team plans differently but sessions typically run to around 30 minutes.

During the official practice sessions (FP1, FP2 and FP3) teams also run live practices, with the car arriving at speed. This helps the driver hone their stopping procedure and gives the team a more realistic test.

The mechanics do a lot of physical training to stay fit for the task. They need to be strong - as the wheel gun torque twists the arms and shoulders and the wheels weigh more than 10kg - and they also need to be agile.

Most teams run fitness programmes based on gym exercises to improve core stability and strength, which helps to maximise performance and also reduces the risk of injury.

Specific movements are optimised using video analysis and for those positions that require greater strength – such as the tyre lifter – there are more upper body exercises to do help to bulk up.

The driver must not only be able to spot his pit – helped by a sign from the pit wall – but he must stop his car in exactly the right spot.

The team is positioned precisely and any misalignment – either too far forward or back or closer to one particular side – will result in the crew having to adjust their position. This can cost between 0.6-1 second or, worse still, could knock the jack man to the floor – as Lewis Hamilton did in practice for the 2021 Russian Grand Prix.

Once at a stand still, the car is put into neutral and the driver keeps his foot on the brake to stop the wheels turning. He will also hold the steering wheel tight to keep the front wheels from moving.

He then initiates the launch sequence and places full focus on the light gantry. The revs rise to the optimum level and when the light goes green the driver puts the car back into gear again and hits the throttle – remembering to keep the speed limiter on until crossing the pit lane exit line.

Does the pit position and box layout make a difference to pitstop times?

The pit box sits just outside the team’s garage, and a gantry is used to run air hoses for the wheel guns over to the far side of the car. This also houses the light system and high-res super slow-motion cameras for analysis.

On the ground, teams make temporary marking points to ensure everyone is stood in the right spot, brush away any dust and get the drivers to do burn-outs during practice to lay fresh rubber through the box and create extra grip.

Garages are assigned on the previous year’s championship order. The first gives the best entry angle but can be difficult to get out of in heavy pit traffic. The last is tighter but gives more time to prepare and has a good exit angle.

Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes W12, exits the pit lane

Photo by: Steve Etherington /

Pit lane speed restrictions were introduced for practice sessions in 1993 and for all sessions after the San Marino Grand Prix in 1994. This is now limited to 80 km/h between the pit entry and exit lines.

Cars have limiter buttons, but they must be manually operated by the driver and anyone exceeding the limit will be fined €100 for each km/h they go above it, up to €1000. They will also get grid or race penalties.

The pits are divided into two lanes. The outer one – no more than 3.5m wide – is the fast lane. Teams may not work on their cars here. They must be moved to the inner lane to do so.

How does F1 define a ‘safe release’ from a pitstop?

Teams are often fined or penalised for an unsafe release, as it is down to the pit controller to decide whether the oncoming traffic is too close to avoid. In the desperation of competition, sometimes mistakes are made.

To help give some clarity, teams will mark up the pit lane with guidance markers. These are positioned a set distance from the box, so the pitstop controller has a visual cue to help their decision.

David Coulthard, McLaren MP4-19B Mercedes, at pit entry with a punctured tyre

At the end of the 2019 season, F1 pitstops had reached record speeds – Red Bull set the fastest ever time with a stop of just 1.82 seconds for Max Verstappen in the Brazilian Grand Prix.

Teams were consistently taking around two seconds, and the governing body became concerned this was reaching the limit of what was humanly possible. As a result, a new Technical Directive (TD) was introduced.

This stipulates certain procedures within the stop that must take no less than 0.15 seconds each and restricts the signal sent between the tyre gunner and the light gantry to be no slower than 0.2s.

The TD also reminds the teams that all the actions of the pit equipment and crew must be human controlled, not automated.

Once combined, this has increased the pitstop speeds closer to three seconds – and the FIA keeps a watchful eye to ensure teams stick to the rules with high-speed cameras fitted above every single pit gantry.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/how-f1-race-strategy-works/6791893/
DATE: 2021

Strategy is the key to success in F1. The days of going flat out to win are long gone and now, with tyre wear so important in races, drivers and teams have to be far cleverer than that.

Everyone loves an overtake, but often the deciding moments of a race don’t come from the cockpit, they come from pit wall.

In the same way that a football manager and the backroom staff use research, analysis and strategy to determine the success of their players, the strategists on an F1 team do the same for an F1 driver.

Winning in F1 is all about executing a highly tuned plan. The same applies to poker. See where your game plan can get you. Click  to start your game plan.

18+, New UK players only, min £10 deposit, Full T&Cs Apply, begambleaware.org, Play Responsibly

Unless the race is wet throughout, drivers have to make at least one pit stop. That’s in the rules – just to help spice up races and avoid cars running in a train.

In the past, cars also used to stop to refuel. The first time that happened was when Juan Manuel Fangio did it as a one-off in the 1957 German Grand Prix but then nobody did it again until Brabham tried it in 1982.

They proved that fuelling light so the car went faster then stopping midway through for fuel and also some fresh rubber was a clever strategy. It caught on with other teams but was then banned in 1984.

Ten years later it was back, when F1 decided it needed to spice things up. Huge safety measures were put in place – but sometimes it went wrong, most famously when Max Verstappen’s dad Jos was engulfed in flames at Hockenheim.

Refuelling was banned again in 2010 but to keep the strategy element that had proven so popular, the rulemakers decided to required teams to use two different types of tyre during the race.

Different tyre types perform differently, with softer tyres giving more grip but wearing down more quickly, and that degradation – or deg – is core to the team’s strategy.

The McLaren team on the pit wall

Photo by: Steven Tee /

The decision on what race strategy to take is based on huge amounts of research and data analysis – both pre-determined and race weekend dependent.

Around six weeks before the race, the strategists will gather data on variables such as the time it takes to come in and out of the pit lane; the average expected pit stop time; the chances of a safety car; and the effect of a safety car.

They use this, coupled with predictions of the pace and deg of their own car and that of their rivals, to develop the baseline strategy for that particular race.

Once at the track, practice sessions provide live information on tyre performance (see article IG1). Teams collect data on the deg for each tyre type – again, for them and their rivals – and plug that back into their simulations to refine them.

Tyre wear is not only affected by tyre type and tyre temperature but also by car weight. As a race runs, fuel is burned off and the car becomes lighter, reducing the impact of wear on the tyres. All this must also be factored in.

Finally, the position a driver qualifies and the accurate weather predictions (not just the chances of rain but also the likely air and track temperatures, wind speed and direction) will all play a factor in what will be the optimum plan.

A Pirelli technician takes some data readings

Photo by: Andy Hone /

All the pre-determined and live information is fed into a computer program that adjusts the variables to calculate the shortest time in which the driver should be able to complete the given number of race laps.

This prediction includes the effect of traffic. It determines when a driver might get behind other cars and be delayed and predicts the best time to pit to avoid being held up for too long but also to come back out in a clear gap.

The simulation spits out the optimum Plan A strategy, including what lap to stop on and what lap times the driver needs to run at. Teams will also have a Plan B alternative as the next best scenario if the first does not go as expected.

The Safety Car Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB16B

Photo by: Andy Hone /

The planned strategy is just the starting point, as things often do not work out as expected – not only within the team but with the opposition too.

One of the most crucial parts of the strategy is the pit stop out lap and making sure a driver comes back on track in as much space as possible, as opposed to being pitched into battle in the middle of the pack.

On pit wall, in the garage and even back at base, the strategy team is constantly monitoring the pace and position of the other cars and running live simulations to predict how the strategy options are changing.

Teams might play the weather, delaying a pit stop in case rain comes and they have to pit again. They may also react to a safety car, which slows the field down and allows cars to pit and lose less time.

Perhaps the biggest element of strategy, however, is monitoring where the gaps are, how they are changing and adapting to take advantage or avoid other cars. And that is where the undercut and overcut comes in.

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Nobody reveals their hand until as late as possible, but as soon as a rival pits the teams must decide whether to alter their strategy to react to that move or stick to their original plans.

If a driver gets stuck behind a rival, the team may opt to go for an ‘undercut.’ This is when the driver pits earlier and then sets a few faster laps on new tyres to try and be ahead when the other driver stops. Getting out in clean air is crucial.

Equally, if a rival pits and there is still good performance left in the tyres, a team may opt for an ‘overcut.’ In this case, the driver stays out and pushes for a few laps in the hope that once they pit they can come out ahead of their rival.

Whenever these moves are made, teams constantly calculate and predict their car’s pace and that of their rivals.

Despite all this insight and knowledge, however, if a driver clips a kerb, a mechanic fumbles a wheel nut or some drops of rain come down at the wrong time, the race can be turned on its head in an instant.

But don’t think the team has planned for that – as soon as any issue occurs, the simulation computers will be whirring with new scenarios, working out how to make the most of the latest situation.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/what-happens-f1-race-day/6766703/
DATE: 2021

Whatever time an F1 race begins, you can guarantee the F1 teams have already been working for hours to get prepared. This is the sharp end of the weekend, and precision timing is crucial to get team and driver in top shape for the off.

Here’s what it takes and how they do it.

F1 trucks in the paddock

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Teams arrive at the track around 7:30am for breakfast in the motorhome. The strategy meeting is held around 9am, with the lead strategy engineer – who will typically have been up late on Saturday computing different race scenarios – outlining the preferred plans for the race.

Winning in F1 is all about executing a highly tuned plan. The same applies to poker. See where your game plan can get you. Click  to start your game plan.

18+, New UK players only, Full T&Cs Apply, begambleaware.org, Play Responsibly

These strategy plans are based on a combination of historic data (such as the potential for a safety car, the length of the pits, the team’s position in the paddock, etc), practice data, grid position and weather predictions.

Drivers often start race day with some light warm-up exercises at the hotel, and maybe a sports massage, before heading to the track. It’s a long wait for lights-out, so some watch the Formula 2 Feature Race to get an eye for racing lines or track conditions, some sit in their motorhome rooms for some quiet time and some spend time visualising the race in their mind.

Drivers will usually eat no later than two-and-a-half hours before the race, after which they switch to water and electrolyte drinks to stay mentally sharp.

Around one-and-a-half hours before the race, the whole race team gathers in the garage – all wearing headsets for privacy and clarity – to be briefed on the race plan. This covers plans for the start, different pit stop scenarios, a detailed weather report and any non team-specific of organisational updates.

At this point it is crucial for the driver to get into a relaxed but confident state.

Each has a different routine, but it could include eye muscle exercises, reaction drills, stretching and active exercises such as high jumps, boxing, clap press-ups and reaction games that focus on hands, feet or fingers.

Meanwhile, the trolleys are wheeled out to the grid around an hour before race start, and the teams prepare the generators and cooling fans – which use dry ice to super cool the cars on the grid.

F1 generator on the grid

Photo by: Andy Hone /

When the pit lane opens, the cars will go out on an ‘installation lap’. This is a legacy from the past, when teams stripped down their cars and rebuilt them between qualifying and the race.

Back then, formation laps were used to make sure everything was working. Now, with the cars in parc ferme conditions between qualifying and the race, they are more for a driver to get a feel of the conditions.

Drivers typically do a flying lap, return to the pits, then go out again to meet their mechanics and engineers – a maximum of 42 for each car – who are already waiting on the grid.

The drivers stop at the back of the grid and are met by mechanics who jack up the car, slide ‘wheelie boards’ underneath and walk it into its grid position.

Once on station, drivers jump out of the car and try to tune out, often cooling down under umbrellas or throwing ice towels around their shoulders to stay cool. Some try to avoid grid interviews, others are happy to talk.

Many don headphones and tune out to music. Daniel Ricciardo, for example, recently revealed the pre-race playlist he can be seen dancing to on the grid. Apparently, it includes hip-hop gym bangers, rock and EDM, covering everything from modern rap to noughties-era electro.

Whilst drivers are tuning into their tunes, the rest of the team are checking in to the race radio transmissions. There is one main channel for all to hear, while individual teams dial in to different group channels and the race team manager has a direct feed with the drivers, giving them timely reminders of the sporting regulations and the pre-race preparation process.

Information flow on the general channels will include up-to-date weather conditions such as wind intensity and angle, strategy modifications, instructions on tyre temperatures and any last-minute issues.

On the grid, every person has a specific set of jobs to do. All pre-determined. Each car has a number one mechanic and a senior race engineer, and that pairing takes joint responsibility for organising the rest of the people on the car’s team.

They will fit cooling fans, tyre blankets and plug in the ‘umbilical cord’ to a computer laptop to control the car. Among other things, the engineer will check the steering wheel switches are set right for race start and the front wing angles are correct. Meanwhile, powerplant engineers prepare the start sequence.

In the empty garage, chairs are lined up for the mechanics to sit during the race.

Photo by: Charles Coates /

This is the cut-off for cars to leave the garage. After this, anyone left there must start from the pit lane exit. This only really happens when teams need to do last-minute repairs or gamble on rain tyres if the weather looks iffy.

Drivers will nip to the pits for a wee – sometimes getting nabbed by TV crews en-route. They then join the formal procedures at the front of the grid, including the national anthem and the #WeRaceAsOne initiative.

From now on, a series of sirens and signals mark the approach of the start – ten minutes, five minutes, three minutes, one minute, and fifteen seconds before the start of the formation lap.

The hustle and bustle of the grid dies down now, as journalists, special guests and non-technical team members are asked to depart. That leaves just the drivers, the start crews and the FIA officials.

The drivers will now be in the car having performed any pre-race rituals – Sebastian Vettel steps in from the left, for example. Engineers run last-minute systems checks, right down to ensuring mirrors are in the right position.

Russian GP grid cleared

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Five red lights on the gantry start the countdown to the race.

At this point, the wheels must be on and tyre blankets disconnected from power (but can still be left around the tyres). If this is not the case, teams get a penalty.

Non-essential team personnel and equipment trolleys must start to leave the grid, leaving no more than 16 per car on the grid with three minutes to go. On pit wall, the lead engineering team starts to assemble in front of a bank of timing screens and laptops.

On the one-minute signal, engines should be started, tyre blankets are removed and the cars are lowered from their stands.

All team personnel must leave the grid with no less than 15 seconds to go before the formation lap, taking all equipment with them. If any are still around the car, that car must start from the pits.

The green lights go on to start the formation lap, with all cars driving at pit lane limited speed until the pass the pole spot. As soon as the cars are off, the mechanics sprint back to the pits to get ready for any first lap incidents.

Inside the garage, rows of engineers are now focused on a huge array of laptops and screens showing data graphs, circuit maps with moving dots, gear lights and numbers, race TV feeds and team cameras in the pits. This is the hub of the team’s race control, and from the next hour and a half it will be very busy.

It’s not all go yet, and this one lap preparation is crucial for the race start. Drivers must stay bunched together and cannot overtake or do practice starts. They can weave to warm their tyres.

They perform a series of pre-start operations on cues from their engineers, such as selecting settings to heat the brakes and performing burnouts to get the tyres up to temperature.

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

When the cars are lined up, the five red light start sequence is initiated. This was introduced into F1 in 1996 to reduce the risk of false starts. The previous red and green system often led to false starts when red went off and green was not yet lit.

This automated sequence is started by FIA Race Director Michael Masi after transponders in the cars have confirmed they are all in position. The lights go on one per second, giving drivers helpful cues as they carry out a start sequence.

The last one triggers a jump-start detection system and a pre-set but random interval then determines when they go off to start the race, making it impossible to predict and far less likely to get wrong.

As soon as the lights go out, as the great Murray Walker used to excitedly shout, it’s “go, go, go!”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/insiders-guide-how-an-f1-race-weekend-works/6744616/
DATE: 2021

An F1 weekend begins way before the race or qualifying, so what are the teams doing all that time and why do things happen the way they do? We go inside the paddock to explore how the key moments make a difference.

The advance team has already been here for several days, setting up the garages and glitzy motorhomes – but this is when the drivers and race teams arrive.

It’s a preparation day and it is one most drivers hate!

Winning in F1 is all about executing a highly tuned plan. The same applies to poker. See where your game plan can get you. Click  to start your game plan.

18+, New UK players only, Full T&Cs Apply, begambleaware.org, Play Responsibly

All 20 drivers must now take part in the official press conferences. These went online in the pandemic and the format has stuck since, with drivers lining up two-by-two in random pairs.

They also include an often-bizarre fan question – like ‘can you eat ice cream’ or ‘do you wee in the car’ – which sometimes delivers the best answers of the day.

Amongst all this, team briefings are held to discuss baseline set-up, practice strategies and the race weekend as a whole. These are conducted on team headsets – so everyone can hear clearly, and no outsiders can listen in.

This day also includes the track walk – a legacy from a time before simulators and technology, but also something that can offer some valuable insight.

It usually involves drivers and engineering team members, sometimes a trainer, photographer or press officer. Some teams go with both drivers together, others go independently.

Tracks change every year, so drivers use it to spot new bumps, cambers and braking marks and to check out the kerbs to see which to attack and which to stay away from.

They also get to feel the wind direction and any sheltered sections – basic but important information – and the engineers use it to discuss operational sequences and to grab some driver attention away from the garage.

Despite all these benefits, though, Lewis Hamilton and Max Verstappen rarely do one – preferring to save energy and brainpower for when they are in the car.

F1 teams walk the track

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

A traditional race weekend - as opposed to the new sprint format – has three 60-minute ‘Free Practice’ sessions on a Friday (FP1 and FP2) and one session on a Saturday morning (FP3).

Teams use the ‘live’ data they collect to adapt their computer simulations and hone their strategies – not only through the work of trackside engineers but also strategy teams and even driver-in-the-loop simulators back at base.

Here, track time is vital – and any mistakes, crashes, red flags or bad weather that interrupts this can damage their chances for the rest of the weekend.

The weekend’s running begins with an installation lap at the start of FP1. Cars are stripped and rebuilt after each race, so this just makes sure everything went back together with no issues.

It’s also the time when teams typically fit aero testing devices or run flow visualisation, to cross check wind tunnel data. Bolt-on devices like rakes can get in the way though, so they’re not usually used when lap times matter.

Once the car is back in the garage, the engine cover and sidepods come off, data is reviewed and, once it checks out, the car is given the all-clear to run in anger.

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Testing away from a race weekend is banned, so teams now have to review new parts on Grand Prix weekends – and FP1 is usually when it is done.

The parts have already been proven in the wind tunnel or simulations, but the reality does not always match the predictions.

A test programme will start with a baseline run, followed by comparison runs in which different parts are tried out or set-ups are changed. If a driver does not like a particular change, teams will often have to adapt or revert to the original.

Drivers typically need a lap or two to sort braking points and racing lines in their latest car, and to get used to any changes to the track since their last visit. After that, the car is run to a methodical pre-determined programme.

Several runs of different lengths are conducted each session. Each time the car comes back to the pits, it is tweaked and the driver is given a set of instructions telling them what to focus on, and often a target time.

Top-line performance data – such as cornering speeds, straight-line speeds, braking performance – gets fed back live from the car. Detailed data is sent in bursts as the car passes the pits and also downloaded using an ‘umbilical cord’ plugged in when the car is back in the pits.

This information is used, along with driver feedback, to refine the balance and drivability. Mechanics alter suspension geometries and/or aerodynamic set-up, with some tweaks made in-session and more in-depth changes between sessions.

Pirelli tyres in the garage

Photo by: Steven Tee /

Practice is also used to learn about tyre performance – a critical factor in the race itself.

Teams have a range of tyres to choose from and their grip and wear (‘deg’) can be affected by driving style, fuel levels (the car gets lighter as fuel is used), cornering speeds, track surface and car set-up.

Tyres heat up as the car goes around the track and they are designed to operate at their best in a set temperature window – although that differs car by car.

Deg is key to predicting a race strategy – and F1’s holy grail is being able to run at that optimal tyre temperature for as long as possible.

That is why teams send cars out on long runs in practice, to check whether deg is higher or lower than expected – and therefore whether a tyre will last more or less laps than predicted.

They then feed that into their simulations to decide what tyres to use for qualifying and the race, and also what the plan will be for Saturday morning.

The cars leave the pits

Photo by: Jerry Andre /

Teams typically use FP3 for final set-up changes and to decide the optimum qualifying strategy – how many runs to do in each session, how much fuel is needed, and when is the best time to go out to avoid the traffic.

At some circuits – notably Monza – cars can gain huge chunks of lap time by grabbing a tow from the car in front. In other places, getting close is the worst thing you can do. Either way, teams need to plan their timings to the second.

This lasts an hour but is split into three sections, each long enough for just one or two flying laps. Cars are knocked every session – so it’s a high-stakes game of speed, strategy and timing.

The slowest five go out in Q1, with their times defining places 16-20 on the grid. The clocks reset for Q2, and the same happens again, this time for positions 11-15. It then comes down to the top-ten shoot-out to decide the front of the grid.

Any car that makes the top 10 is given a fresh set of tyres for the shoot-out only and must keep their set from Q2 to start the race on. Everyone else can choose whichever tyre they like for the off.

Teams have a limited number of tyre sets to use over the weekend – so keeping a soft set back for the race is a massive benefit.

However, they might need that extra speed to get into the next session – so they have to take a calculated gamble, using practice data to estimate the time they need to get through each session. Get it wrong, and it can be costly.

Parc Ferme Conditions

As soon as qualifying begins, the cars go into ‘parc ferme conditions’ until the start of the race – which means the opportunity to change anything on them is very limited. That doesn’t mean they are untouchable. They can be repaired and prepared, just not modified.

Teams can actually do quite a lot under parc ferme conditions – including starting engines, removing fuel, testing electronics, bleeding brakes, draining fluids, removing bodywork and even changing the front wing angle.

Any damaged parts can be repaired or replaced with an identical one, and an entire rebuild can even be done if necessary. Some changes – like gearboxes and engines – will incur a penalty, even if they were damaged in an accident.

The cars that complete Q3 have to go to the scrutineering bay for legality checks before heading back to the garages. All others can go straight back to their teams. Wherever they are, the cars have a scrutineer watching over them at all times.

Cars can be worked on for up to three-and-a-half hours after qualifying. After that, they are covered and ‘put to bed’.

Straight after qualifying, the teams pack a fleet of trolleys with equipment ready to take to the grid on Sunday. This includes everything from tyres to generators, all of which have to be checked to make sure it is fully working.

The trolleys are heavy, and they cannot be motorised – which is part of the reason teams send so many people to the grid.

Strategy teams suddenly have lots more accurate data to play with. They also have fewer variables – because they now know the actual grid positions.

They spend Saturday night running race simulations, checking through a huge range of different possible scenarios – like how gaining or losing places at the start or getting stuck behind slower cars could affect the best strategy.

On top of this, any team that missed out on Q3 also gets to decide what tyre to start on, so will need to simulate the options to decide which way to go.

Teams on the grid prior to the start

Photo by: Jerry Andre /

Teams are allowed to touch their cars again five hours before the formation lap that leads to the start of the Grand Prix – but still under parc ferme conditions.

At any point during this time, if the weather changes race control can ease these regulations to allow changes to brake and radiator ducts, as well as tyres.

They also often call for a change in headrest, as there are three different specs of foam that absorb impact best at different temperature ranges. Pink is for mid-range, blue is hotter and light blue is colder. These can be swapped in seconds.

The race start is covered in a separate article but, in summary, the pit lane opens 40 minutes before the formation lap and closes ten minutes later. After the formation lap, the five red lights on the start gantry light up and, when they go out, the race is on. Every car must run two different tyre types (unless it is wet) – so they have to make at least one pit stop on the way to the chequered flag.

Before the race is even finished, the teams are beginning to dismantle their pits and motorhomes. Garage walls are taken down, non-essential spares are packed away and after the race computer racks are stacked and cabling is wound away.

The plan for this is set out way back on Thursday morning and the whole process can take around eight hours – so the first trucks can be heading off at dusk on a Sunday night.

Engines and tyres are usually returned to their manufacturers, the cars are part dismantled to fit in the transporters and the entire team heads back home or hits the road for the next event.

Immediately after the race – and any required media activities – the engineering team and drivers run through an immediate top-line race analysis.

This is based on a chart showing how all the field performed and can be crucial to spot and diffuse immediate issues – even if the team won. Back at base, the engineers are already analysing data for the next race, and the circus moves on.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ricciardo-lost-a-bit-of-faith-after-nearly-laughable-start-to-f1-2021/7057563/
DATE: 2021

Ricciardo joined  on a three-year contract for the 2021 season after his exit from Renault, but initially failed to match teammate  for pace.

Norris scored three podium finishes and more than double the points of Ricciardo before the summer break as the Australian struggled through the first half of the season.

But Ricciardo responded in emphatic fashion by scoring McLaren’s first win for almost nine years in the Italian Grand Prix at Monza, leading home Norris for a 1-2 finish.

Ricciardo took to his radio after winning the race to tell his McLaren team: “Deep down I knew this was going to come, so thanks for having my back. And for anyone who thought I left, I never left. Just moved aside for a while.”

Ricciardo explained how the message was directed not only at those who had written him off, but also at himself after conceding he had some doubts and questions arise.

“I appreciate that message was going to be directed at I guess people who did maybe think that I'd checked out, and that I was on my way out or a little bit washed up or whatever,” Ricciardo said in an end-of-season interview including Motorsport.com.

“But still, first and foremost, that message was for me because there were times where I did lose a little bit of faith and I did second guess myself like, why am I struggling so much? Do I have now a little bit of fear that I'm not pushing the car as much?

“I knew I didn't, but still when things aren't going well, some of these questions pop up. So the 'I never left' was also for me to be like, I can still do it, I still belong here. And anyone that forgot, then forget no more.”

Daniel Ricciardo, McLaren MCL35M, Lando Norris, McLaren MCL35M

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Ricciardo said that after his strong end to the season in 2020 with Renault and then outqualifying Norris for the opening race of 2021 in Bahrain, part of him thought that it was “only going to get better”.

“Maybe that was bad, because then it was probably even more head scratching that I was in a way going backwards over the next course of races,” Ricciardo said.

“But yeah, I think now the second half of the season, it went better. I got the win and did all this, and confirmed a lot of stuff to myself.

“I'm happy. I'm happy where things are. It's not perfect. But I'm happy.”

One of the lowest points of Ricciardo’s season came at the Hungarian Grand Prix, when he crossed the line 11th out of 13 finishers after picking up damage in the first-lap melee at Turn 1.

Ricciardo felt footage from the onboard camera on his car that showed him cutting a dejected figure in parc ferme as he checked the damage on his car “explained everything why I needed the summer break”.

"As dejected as I was at the time, part of me was also happy, because I was like, alright, the first half has been what it was,” Ricciardo said.

“It’s nearly laughable in some ways. So let's just f*** it off, jump on a plane and just not care about F1 for two weeks.

“I think everyone operates differently, but I need that escape sometimes. I'm not a driver that goes to bed every night thinking of F1. So I knew it was going to be healthy for me.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/gasly-mclaren-ferrari-fights-different-excitement/7021425/
DATE: 2021

Gasly scored more points through 2021 than in any of his previous three full F1 seasons, finishing ninth in the standings with 110 points.

While Gasly could not emulate his shock win at Monza from 2020, the Frenchman picked up a podium finish in Azerbaijan, and was outside of the top 10 in just three races where he saw the chequered flag.

narrowly lost out to  in the fight for fifth place in the constructors’ championship, finishing 13 points behind.

Gasly said that while it was “difficult” to see such a small gap separating the teams at the end of a long season, he took heart from how AlphaTauri had performed throughout the campaign.

“What we have achieved as a team, when we look at all the previous years of AlphaTauri and Toro Rosso, is incredible,” Gasly said.

“So [I’m] really proud of these guys, and also hopeful for the next year and what we can achieve. Because they have proved this year that they can perform at very high levels.”

Pierre Gasly, AlphaTauri

Photo by: Erik Junius

While Gasly did not think 2021 surpassed 2020 as his best season in F1, saying that “nothing can beat this winning feeling”, the chance to regularly battle with midfield leaders  and  had kept him motivated.

"As an entire season, 22 races, I must say I enjoyed all 22,” Gasly said.

“Coming into a race weekend knowing you're going to be fighting for points, you're going to fight with Ferraris and McLarens, is just a different kind of excitement.

“I must say I've loved it all year, and I really hope it's going to be the case [again] next year.”

Alpine managed to pull clear of AlphaTauri in the fight for fifth late in the year, boosted by ’s podium finish and ’s run to fifth in Qatar. Ocon also scored a shock win for the team in Hungary, helping it take P5.

Gasly joked that it was “a shame we don't take off the best and the worst result of the year”, but praised Alpine for doing “a good job”.

“I do believe we did very well and we could have finished fifth, but that didn't happen,” Gasly said.

“I'm still very proud of what we have achieved and what I've achieved. You know, 110 points, it doesn't happen very often with Alpha Tauri. I’ve enjoyed this season a lot.

“I know next year could be very different. It could be same, could be better, could be worse. But at the end of the day, I’m just happy to have seen the team performing in that way, because it gives hope for next year.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/norris-mclaren-ferraris-p3-fight-helped-both-f1-teams-for-future/7021512/
DATE: 2021

While  and Red Bull comfortably finished first and second in this year’s standings,  and  both made considerable steps forward to cut the gap to the front of the field.

McLaren scored a 1-2 finish at Monza, while Ferrari picked up five podiums and two poles across the year as the fight for third in the constructors’ went to the final race of the season.

A strong end to the year ultimately gave Ferrari P3 by 47.5 points in the final standings, but both teams felt the fight had helped sharpen them for potential future battle further up the grid.

“I would say it has helped quite a bit,” said McLaren driver Norris when asked by Motorsport.com about the benefits of the battle against Ferrari.

“Just being with that mentality, them keeping us on our toes, keeping us pushing, trying to find these smallest bits of lap time.

“It is easy at times to get complacent and take your mind off of it, especially if you are on your own, the third-quickest car with nobody ahead or behind you.

“There are ways to fall into that trap, so I think it has been good for us. The same for them - not an easy year for them, so I think it has benefitted both of us.”

Lando Norris, McLaren, gives a thumbs up after securing third on the grid

Photo by: Steven Tee /

Norris said he believed McLaren had enjoyed a “much better season” despite slipping from third to fourth in the teams’ standings. McLaren scored 275 points this season, compared to 202 in 2020.

“I would say it has been a tough season and I still believe we’ve had a much better season than we did last year,” said Norris.

“We are closer to the front, and the gap to the rest is also much bigger, apart from Ferrari. It has still been a very good season, and not just in terms of results and points, but also how we worked together as a team and how we maximised things.

“I think we are in a better position for next year when we are going to racing them more often and hopefully the guys at the front more often too.”

Both McLaren and Ferrari are hoping to take advantage of the incoming overhaul of the technical regulations in 2022 to take another step forward that would allow them to challenge the front-running teams.

Ferrari sporting director Laurent Mekies agreed that the fight with McLaren had helped the team work on its operations and race executions, calling it “our world championship for this year”.

“We really focused on how we can use this year to become sharper and to develop as a race team and to develop our tools and so on,” Mekies said.

“It’s a very good team to fight against. They’ve had some fantastic moments, they won Monza, they could have won Sochi. They are very, very competitive. They are also in a very good dynamic themselves.

“So it was a good challenge. And yes, it’s a challenge where you need to make fewer mistakes than them. You need to put more of these small details together if you want to beat them.

“It is ultimately the same thing that is happening for the top two positions. It’s the same dynamic. The points loss costs you the same, and therefore, it was a good, it is a good training for that for the team.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mclaren-getting-to-grips-with-mercedes-engine-key-ahead-of-new-f1-rules/6886294/
DATE: 2021

rekindled its famed partnership with  for the 2020 season, having previously enjoyed works support from the German manufacturer from 1995 for 2014.

While McLaren slipped to fourth place in the constructors' standings behind , the team enjoyed a strong season as it scored 73 more points and picked up its first win for nearly nine years in the Italian Grand Prix with .

Changing power unit suppliers can often be a difficult and challenging period for teams, but McLaren managed to hit the ground running with Mercedes after integrating the new power unit into its car despite the majority freeze in the regulations.

McLaren F1 boss Seidl felt it was important for the team to have got on top of working with Mercedes ahead of the new technical regulations from 2022, allowing it to confidently design its car around the power unit.

"We have a great team in place, we have all the talents in place that I think we need in order to make the next steps," Seidl said.

"We simply need time. We are ambitious of course, but at the same time you need time to see the results of that, and I'm very happy we could make this next step.

"One very important thing this year was to get our partnership with Mercedes up and running through this year before the new technical regulations come into place.

"We could gain a lot of experience this year already with the Mercedes power unit, and [it] puts us in a better position designing a completely new car for next year knowing already the Mercedes power unit.

"So that was a job really well done as well on both sides."

Daniel Ricciardo, McLaren MCL35M, Lando Norris, McLaren MCL35M

Photo by: Charles Coates /

McLaren enjoyed a decent buffer over Ferrari in the fight for P3 after winning at Monza and coming close to victory in Russia with , but ultimately finished the year 48.5 points behind.

Seidl admitted it was "painful" to lose so much ground during the final triple-header of the season, across which McLaren scored only four points, but was encouraged it could take the fight to Ferrari and Red Bull on occasion.

"It was simply a great season for us for a lot of reasons," Seidl said.

"We made a big step forward again with the car, in terms of getting closer with the lap times in quali and in the race to Mercedes and Red Bull.

"We were even in a position this year to occasionally challenge them at the tracks which were suiting our car.

"In terms of reliability we had a very good season, again in terms of operational strength out here at the track. We made steps forward also with consistency and speed of the pitstops.

"And simply the way how we work together as a team was clearly for me the next step again, which is the most important thing for me to see.

"We made a major reset to the team two years ago in terms of organisation, culture, and we created now stability which hasn't been there before at McLaren for several years."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/oward-sees-two-year-window-to-make-f1-switch-happen/6885554/
DATE: 2021

Arrow McLaren SP IndyCar driver O’Ward took part in the young driver test in Abu Dhabi on Tuesday as a reward for scoring his first victory earlier this year, having made a bet with McLaren Racing CEO Zak Brown.

O’Ward completed 92 laps in the McLaren MCL35M at the Yas Marina Circuit, and said afterwards that , surpassing all expectations.

O’Ward previously said that  from IndyCar to F1 in the future, calling the series “the top of the top”.

Following his test outing in Abu Dhabi, O’Ward said he thought there was only a two-year window for him to look at making the move to F1, but that he was determined to make it happen.

“To be fairly honest, arguably there’s maximum two more years for me to be able to come into the F1 scene,” O’Ward told Motorsport.com in Abu Dhabi. “There’s not much more time.

“I will do everything I can to make it happen, because it is the top of the top, and my dream and my life, right now, it all started with one dream, and that dream was to make it to Formula 1.

“That dream ambled out to different series, endurance racing and IndyCar racing. But it all started with that one dream. And I’d be lying if I said I don’t want it, because I do.

“I’m going to do absolutely everything I can, and I’m going to push to my absolute maximum to make sure that I leave nothing on the table.

“Because you’ve got to take it. You’ve got to try, because if I don’t, I will regret it for the rest of my life.”

Pato O'Ward, McLaren MCL35M

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

While O’Ward said he felt a step closer to make the move after his first F1 test, he acknowledged there were “a lot more steps that have to be taken in order to actually get the seat”.

“But I think it was a very good first step,” he added.

O’Ward will return to IndyCar in 2022 with the McLaren team after finishing third in this year’s championship, scoring two race wins and finishing fourth at the Indianapolis 500. He is due to race in the Gulf 12 Hours alongside McLaren boss Brown next month, but afterwards will shift full attention back to IndyCar.

“I’ll go back to Indy, start preparing, start the season, and it’s time to win some races,” O’Ward said.

“Time to challenge for another championship, and let’s see if we’ve made our car faster.

“We want to challenge for another title, and we want to have another go at trying to win the 500.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/norris-mclaren-deserved-more-late-season-frustration/6885195/
DATE: 2021

Norris slipped from fourth to sixth in the world championship in the closing races of the season.

He finishing the year with a seventh in Abu Dhabi after a late puncture dropped him down from a potential fourth place finish, and cost him the chance to challenge Carlos Sainz for third.

His four previous starts saw him earn a ninth place and a trio of tenths after various misfortunes caught him out, including first lap contact with Sainz in Brazil, a tyre failure in Qatar, and losing out when others had a free tyre change at the red flag in Saudi Arabia.

“Of course, I've made a couple of mistakes, Brazil for me the big one, that cost me,” he said when asked about his season by Motorsport.com.

“But apart from there, we've just been very unlucky with the punctures, with problems and incidents, whatever.

“Just hasn't been the second half of the season we wanted. We deserved a lot more. I think the team have done a much better job than it looks like. And I feel like I've done a much better job than what it looks like, we just been unlucky, that's all."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

In Abu Dhabi, Norris had gearbox issues in the early stages, but it was the puncture that saw him called into the pits with 10 laps to go that proved expensive.

"Some gearbox problems, I wouldn't say it really cost us anything, it cost me some time here and there, but didn't cost me positions, thankfully.

“But the puncture did, so the puncture ruined it really. Especially after the safety car we could have had a chance to at least fight Carlos, go for a P3 or a P4, and still a good chance I could have finished fifth [in the championship] as a driver.

"I feel like we did a good job to keep off [Charles] Leclerc, and I was doing a good job of that point to keep [Valtteri] Bottas behind me, and that was very important.

“And I'm confident I could have kept him behind me for the whole race. But yeah, we had to do one more pitstop for no reason, and that sucks.

“It was a slow puncture. The team at first didn't actually tell me what it was. They just said ‘We have to box, and I'll tell you why later.’ I think I started to feel it probably the final lap, and I guessed what it was.

“Through no fault of mine or the team's we lost out again. So it's just more unlucky moments, things thrown away from us or taken away from us. Can't get frustrated by it, just have to deal with it.”

Regarding his drop from third on the grid to fifth on the first lap in Abu Dhabi, he said: "[Sergio] Perez was on the inside. He was going to like, run me off. I just had to go wide. So I [conceded] the position to him.

“I don't know if he probably had a slightly better start, but I just didn't have a good enough start to attack. So as simple as that."

Despite his obvious frustration, Norris insisted that 2021 has been his best season.

"So many things that make it a lot tougher to take,” he said. “But I think I'm still very happy with how I've done. Things for me to improve on again, but I'm happy, it's still been my most successful season.

“Personally, I feel like I did everything I could to give us as a team the best opportunity to go against . Although it still didn't work out, I think how I started the season really put us in that position.

“And Ferrari was strong from the very first race, and that's what people don't realise. They were super strong from race one. And they just got much stronger than what we did.

"So yeah, they did a good job, they did a better job than us, and we have to try and do better next season."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mclaren-led-wheel-cover-lights-testing-abu-dhabi/6885155/
DATE: 2021

During the opening run of Wednesday’s test session at the Yas Marina Circuit, wheel covers were fitted to the rear wheels of ’s  car that featured LED lights.

Norris completed only one flying lap using the LED light wheel covers before returning to the pits, after which they were removed for his subsequent running.

It nevertheless served as a taste of future technology that could be introduced to the series in the future. The lights could potentially be used either for team marketing purposes or to provide information such as car position.

“There was an idea to put some LEDs into the wheel covers, to use these wheel covers also for marketing purposes, that means you can display any kind of message,” Pirelli F1 chief Mario Isola told Motorsport.com in Abu Dhabi.

“But clearly you have to test them, because the wheel covers are also an element that could unbalance the tyre.

“It’s really important that the tyre is properly balanced, otherwise they start to have vibrations.”

Isola added: “When you fit this [LED light] device and the device is working, you can do whatever you want.

“You can display the position, you can display logos, you can display the lap time in qualifying or something like that. There are many possibilities.

“You have the technology, so it’s easy to programme what you want to display.”

Lando Norris, McLaren MCL35M Mule

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Wheel covers will return to F1 next year as part of the overhauled technical regulations, prompting teams to trial them on their modified mule cars during the Abu Dhabi test running.

Teams have been permitted to use Pirelli’s new 18-inch tyres during the test on their mule cars, giving them a chance to pick up some data ahead of their introduction next year.

The additional wheel bodywork, which also includes a deflector over the top of the front wheels, is intended to reduce the wake produced by the wheels as they rotate.

Isola explained that revisions were required for the initial wheel cover designs for the 18-inch tyres to ensure they remained balance, and that pit crews could easily remove the tyres from the car.

“Next year the rims will be standard for everybody, sensors will be standard and rim covers will be standard,” Isola said.

“The first version of the rim cover was very close to the rim, and we had two problems. One was for the mechanics in the pit stops, because they need to put their fingers in and take the tyres off, and with the wheel cover it was not possible, so they had to modify it.

“The second was we couldn’t add the balanced weight on the outside. That’s why if you see the latest version of the wheel cover, there is a shape that is covering the rim, but then you have a step closer to the rim that is useful for the mechanics to take the tyre and for us to balance the weight.

“With this final version, we can balance the tyre when it’s fitted with the wheel and the wheel cover. Otherwise, if you add the wheel cover after balancing, it can be a problem.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mclaren-not-worried-about-losing-norris-to-f1-rivals/10414126/
DATE: 2022

Norris is under contract until the end of 2025, after signing a fresh deal earlier this year.

However, the departure of  team principal Andreas Seidl to Sauber has already prompted suggestions that, when the squad rebrands as Audi for 2026, it could attempt to lure Norris.

McLaren CEO Zak Brown is aware that Norris’s speed makes him an attractive option for his team’s competitors, but he thinks there is every reason the Woking-based outfit can deliver exactly what is needed to keep him on board.

Asked if he was worried McLaren could eventually lose Norris if it does not make enough progress up the grid, Brown said: “No, because I'm convinced we're going to give him a winning car.

“We have a long-term contract with him. I think he feels very comfortable within the team.

“Other than obviously the pressure we put on ourselves, because we don't want to just give him a winning car, we want to give us a winning car. So, I think we've got a runway to get there.

“He knows the journey we're on. He has bought into the journey that we're on, and I think it'd be early to be worried about it.”

Lando Norris, McLaren MCL36

Photo by: Erik Junius

Brown says Norris has impressed since arriving in F1, being aware that not all stars of junior categories go on to do well in grand prix racing.

“Every step along the way, he gave you a reason to believe the next step he was going to be great,” added Brown.

“But we've seen drivers that have been great along the way and then, when they get to the top, you don't know if it was them or the situation: Jan Magnussen right? He was mega in everything and then didn't quite work in F1.  was often mega in everything, it didn't quite work in F1.

“Lando was mega in everything. And it has worked in F1. In fact, what I think I'm happiest to see is not just pure pace, but how few mistakes he makes, and how strong his racecraft is.

“Looking at Lando, year one. He had the pace, but probably didn't have his elbows out enough. And now he's fair, but he's a tough character when you are racing.”

Brown also reckons that things will be close between Norris and his incoming new teammate Oscar Piastri.

“I think Lando is one of the fastest drivers on the grid and I expect Oscar to be close," he explained.

“I expect Oscar to have some opportunities to beat him and vice versa. And that's obviously what you want, right? It's two drivers right next to each other and reversing the order.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mclaren-had-total-lack-of-trust-before-my-arrival-brown/10412732/
DATE: 2022

Reflecting on the progress that the Woking-based squad has made since he joined at the end of 2016, Brown said the team was in a difficult spot in his early days.

Amid the on-track difficulties posed by the troubled partnership with Honda, and a board room battle between Ron Dennis and Mansour Ojjeh, Brown said that it was a far from happy ship.

"In terms of morale, there was a total lack of trust within the organisation," explained Brown about what he found when he first arrived.

"Everyone was kind of guilty until proven innocent from internal ways of working. So there wasn't any teamwork.

"I think it started at the top in the sense of there was so much going on at the board level, that there wasn't any adult supervision on the F1 team, because everyone was trying to buy each other out. So I think it didn't have the leadership."

Brown came on board in the aftermath of Ojjeh pushing for Dennis to step down as chairman, with the matter eventually going to court.

In the end, Dennis's contract expired in January 2017 and he subsequently agreed to sell the shares that he held at the company.

Mansour Ojjeh, TAG and Ron Dennis, McLaren Executive Chairman

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Brown felt that the troubles at the racing team were triggered by these management battles distracting the senior bosses.

"I don't think that was any one person's fault," he said. "It was just more a situation where you have a board that's not getting along, and that's going to roll down the hill quickly. But there was a lot of lack of trust and confidence.

"I knew there were a lot of world championships and race wins within the racing team. And it was just about getting everyone collaborating and working together and believing. That took a little bit of time, and now we're at a really good place in essence."

Brown says the boardroom battles that dominated his early days are a thing of the past, with the structure at  across its F1 and road car division working well.

"It's very clean, very clear," he explained. "You have a racing board, and a group board. The racing board makes the racing decisions, and the group board makes the automotive decisions.

"Michael Leiters, who's the CEO of automotive, and I get along. He came from . We sit on each other's board meetings. So the collaboration between automotive and racing is excellent.

"It's also clear I report to the executive chairman Paul Walsh, who's also the executive chairman of automotive. And on the racing board, we now have very experienced people that know sport and know motor racing.

"They are the type of board you'd want to have as a CEO, because they understand how quickly the sport moves, how quickly you need to make decisions, and how the game works.

"So I feel extremely supported. Anything that I've needed from the board they've supported me on. The way it works is very, very good."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/norris-one-f1-podium-isnt-enough-despite-very-tough-year-for-mclaren/10409536/
DATE: 2022

Norris claimed third place for McLaren at the Emilia Romagna Grand Prix in April, benefitting from a late error by Charles Leclerc that dropped the Ferrari driver back to sixth place.

Norris said ahead of the summer break that it given its early-season car struggles, the team having enduring a sluggish start in Bahrain.

But Norris ended the year as the only driver not racing for Red Bull, Ferrari or Mercedes to score a podium finish as the ‘big three’ teams dominated the first year under the new regulations.

Asked by Motorsport.com if it meant anything to be the only driver outside these teams to score a podium, Norris replied: “A little bit.

“A podium always means something. It means something to me, means something to the team. But one isn't enough.

“One is like, we got lucky, and all of this stuff. You want to feel like you deserve to be there every time and we deserved to be there for sure. We weren't quick enough to be there. We were kind of way ahead of where we deserve to be.

“But yeah, one time isn't enough for me. It's not a good enough job by the whole team.”

Lando Norris, McLaren MCL36

Photo by: Carl Bingham /

Despite Norris enjoying a successful season en route to seventh place in the standings, McLaren slipped to fifth in the constructors’ as it lost out to Alpine in the battle for P4.

Norris maintained throughout the season that his driving style was not well-suited to the McLaren MCL36 car, with its weaknesses being more noticeable on team-mate Daniel Ricciardo’s side of the garage. Ricciardo scored just 37 points to Norris’s haul of 122.

Norris said McLaren’s car issues this year aren't a “new thing” and that the team knew it had endured a “very tough season.”

He added: “We found it difficult. We've been quite up and down. We've had a weekend like [Abu Dhabi] where we've been quick. And then we were in Brazil, which was one of our worst weekends of the whole season.

“We've had one of the biggest lows, and then maybe one of the best highs of the year in the final two weekends.

“So [there is] a lot of understanding still for us, a lot of learning. But we need to take a step next year, we have to take a step.

“And I feel like everyone's putting in the effort to do so. Time will tell.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mclaren-f1-windtunnel-handicap-no-excuse-for-not-doing-better/10408340/
DATE: 2022

The Woking-based squad fully accepts that its current infrastructure puts it on the back foot against bigger squads like ,  and Red Bull.

However, there are hopes that the addition of major new investments in a wind tunnel and simulator, which are due to be ready next year, will have a big impact in pushing it forwards.

Until that happens though,  is aware that doing much better than the fifth place it finished in this year’s constructors’ championship will be a tall order.

However, team principal Andreas Seidl says that does not mean the team is ready to simply sit back and wait until it can make a bigger step.

Instead, he believes McLaren has scope to lift its game and put itself in the best place possible to capitalise on opportunities that come its way.

“The objective is clear also next year, we want to make another step again in all areas of the team,” he said.

“That’s not just with the car itself, including some of the weaknesses we've seen this year, but also with just simply making another step as a team in all aspects.

“At the same time, I have a realistic view on where we are right now as a team. I'm also aware of the limitations we're still having, mainly on the infrastructure side, especially compared to the teams that are running in front of us. And it’s even teams like  and teams that run behind us at the moment.

“So that means there isn't necessarily a step forward possible in terms of the constructors' championship. But, at the same time, we are racers and we wake up in the morning because we want to shortcut the journey we are in and we try to do a better job. That's the ambition you're having.”

After finishing third in the constructors’ championship in 2020, McLaren was fourth in 2021 before ending up fifth this year.

While Seidl says that the sequence is not ideal, he thinks McLaren is making progress in putting together what it needs to get back to the front of the grid.

“For me in the end, also when I look at this season, it feels like a step backwards compared to previous seasons,” he said.

“But I think there were a lot of positives still this year, where we made steps forward as a team. That's why, in the end, it is still a positive season for us.

“We are on a journey. We know exactly what we have to do in order to make these next steps as a team. At the same time, we know that it takes time.

“But the positive thing is we know all the things that are coming and falling into place are what we need to make this final step in the next few years. And we simply need to make sure that we keep having continuity also in the team, in terms of personnel organisation, because I'm convinced we have all the talents involved that we need.

“It's simply down to us now to get everything in place and then make it work, and also show that we can do it.”

McLaren CEO Zak Brown said that the team fully accepted that limitations in the technology of the Toyota wind tunnel that it currently uses will hold back its car potential until its own facility is ready.

“There are things that we can identify in the wind tunnel that we're in, and the lack of certain technologies that wind tunnel has,” he said. “It's an aero game; it's a drag game.

“Heat isn't our friend from the grip standpoint. And when we look at what the wind tunnel we're in now, what it doesn't do, compared to what our new wind tunnel is going to do, we know what the problem is. We can't quite tackle it until we have better technology.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/2021-indycar-champion-palou-joins-mclaren-as-f1-reserve-driver/10406853/
DATE: 2022

The Spaniard, who took his first IndyCar title with Ganassi in only his second season in the series, made his grand prix weekend debut this year when he drove the McLaren in opening practice for the United States Grand Prix.

He had also tested the MCL35M at Barcelona and the Red Bull Ring as part of his role in the squad's driver development programme.

Palou will compete in IndyCar next year, but will be serving as McLaren's reserve whenever the American series' races don't clash with F1 grands prix. Presently, the series' will clash on 12 occasions in 2023.

"I'm excited to be part of the McLaren team as one of their reserve drivers in 2023," said the 25-year-old Spaniard.

"I've been behind the wheel of both the MCL35M and MCL36 and it has been a great experience, so I can't wait for the involvement with next year's car.

"I look forward to continuing my development as a driver and I appreciate the trust McLaren have in me with this new role next year."

McLaren team principal Andreas Seidl added: "The team are pleased to have Alex on board as one of our reserve drivers for next season. He impressed with his FP1 session in Austin and his Driver Development tests this year.

Alex Palou, McLaren MCL36

Photo by: Carl Bingham /

"He has many notable motorsports achievements so far, particularly the 2021 IndyCar championship title so it's brilliant to be able to expand his role in the team and we look forward to working more closely with him."

Palou will remain with Ganassi for his fourth season in IndyCar. This year, the Catalan driver finished fifth in the standings.

McLaren will have Lando Norris and rookie Oscar Piastri - the 2021 FIA Formula 2 champion - in their Formula 1 line-up next season, the Australian replacing compatriot Daniel Ricciardo alongside the Briton.

Ricciardo will return to reigning F1 world champions Red Bull - with which he raced from 2014 to 2018 - as a reserve driver, having initially been linked with a move to Mercedes in the same role.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ricciardo-sometimes-a-little-too-lost-in-mclaren-f1-difficulties-in-2022/10405964/
DATE: 2022

The Australian parted ways with  after the recent Abu Dhabi Grand Prix off the back of two tough Formula 1 seasons as a McLaren driver.

While there was one significant highlight, Ricciardo's victory at Monza in 2021, he was for the most part out-paced by teammate .

That ultimately led to what was meant to be a three-year deal being terminated early as McLaren moved to replace him with fellow Aussie Oscar Piastri for 2023.

Ricciardo opened up on his struggles at McLaren over the past two years on the latest episode of the Australian Grand Prix Corporation's In the Fast Lane podcast.

He admitted that overanalysing his lack of pace did become an issue and eventually steer him away from his natural driving style.

"It's something that I've certainly thought about," he said.

"I feel that now the season has ended I've already slowly let it go. But I'm sure I'll still think about it over time, because it is a little bit of a... I don't want to say a mystery, but the kind of continuous struggles I had were, at least for me, very foreign.

"We all have our bad races, but to have the amount that I did, and the level that it was at times, like a second a lap off the pace, I'd scratch my head.

"I think already last year, during the summer break, it occurred to me that I was driving very consciously. It wasn't natural anymore. I was one step behind.

"That was where I was like, 'I think we're trying to do too much'.

"One thing I keep thinking back on is my very first qualifying with McLaren. I out-qualifed Lando.

"I still didn't really know the car. I don't know how many times I out-qualified him over the two years, but it wasn't much.

Daniel Ricciardo, McLaren MCL36

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

"To have done it when I was probably just driving more off feel and instinct and a lack of knowledge about the car, that was when I was probably better off.

"That's not a knock on anyone or anything. It's more like, okay, did we overanalyse our bad weekends and then get caught up in a way where it was like, 'we need to start driving like this or setting the car up like that'?

"For sure, at some point, we would have got a little too deep and a little too lost."

Ricciardo stopped short of blaming his lack of success entirely on the level of analysis with the frank admission that the car exposed some of his weaknesses.

"If we didn't dive that deep, would I have killed it? I still don't believe I would have killed it in this car," he said.

"It certainly exposed some of my weaknesses. I have to accept that.

"But I feel that we probably underperformed through burying ourselves too deep in it all at times. And that's a real thing. Especially now.

"Race weekends are so busy, it's so full-on. You only have a certain amount of energy – mental energy, physical, whatever.

"If you're using up a bit more mental energy trying to analyse too much, by the time you're getting into the car you're already probably a little bit fried."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/norris-p5-the-maximum-for-mclaren-after-tough-season-in-f1-2022/10404756/
DATE: 2022

slipped from fourth to fifth after being outscored by , which produced a less reliable but still faster car, and the Woking team wasn't helped by Daniel Ricciardo's well-documented struggles.

Norris acknowledged McLaren's car wasn't good enough to do much more than it did and says P5 is where the team belongs. "Yeah, it's where we deserve to be, P5," Norris said.

"I guess you feel very disappointed when there's a shot at P4 and you feel like you could have had it. But we've had one bad weekend of reliability, Alpine have had four or five, they've had a quicker car the majority of the year.

"So, I think to have kept in a fight with them for so long, proves how good of a job we've done with a worse package, honestly. And therefore, that's why I'm quite happy. We're P5, but there are a lot of good things about the job that we're doing.

"We've just started too far behind in the beginning of the season, so hopefully we can start much higher up next year, make the development, make the progress we did this season and we'll be much better off."

Lando Norris, McLaren, is interviewed

Photo by: Carl Bingham /

Norris admitted McLaren's car performance "hasn't been good enough" this year but praised the progress it has made across operational areas, such as turning its pitstop weakness into a strength over the past few seasons.

"It's not a good enough job by the whole team and again, all of that is down to the car we've had," Norris added.

"We know we've had a very tough season, we found it difficult. We have to take a step next year and I feel like everyone's putting in the effort to do so.

"I think it's just motivation, it's just energy for everyone to finish ahead of Alpine. Everyone here at the track I think has done a very good job, the mechanics, the engineers, I think we've pretty much maximised every opportunity we've had.

"The mechanics have done an outstanding job in the toughest year for pitstops. With heavier tyres, worse guns, we've had the fastest pitstop this year, we've had multiple fastest pitstops of weekends. So many areas are on a good trajectory and are better than ever.

"All the mechanics and engineers are more fired up than ever to make a better car. It's just not an easy thing to do but they have a good plan in place."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mclaren-p5-championship-ricciardo-struggles/10404210/
DATE: 2022

Ricciardo leaves the team after two disappointing seasons at McLaren, with the team deciding in the summer to end his contract one year early and move for rookie Oscar Piastri, who got his first run with the team in Tuesday's post-season test at Yas Marina.

The Australian's struggles proved particularly costly in the constructors' championship, as McLaren fell from fourth to fifth after finishing 14 points behind Alpine.

Ricciardo gathered only 37 points compared to teammate Lando Norris' 122, so even just scoring half of Norris' points total would have easily yielded fourth.

But team principal Seidl has always maintained that the failure to make Ricciardo tick was a joint responsibility between the driver and the Woking team and refuses to blame Ricciardo's situation for losing the position.

"I'm far away from just blaming the situation with Daniel for not scoring P4 this year," Seidl said after Sunday's season finale.

"In the end I'm aware as well about my responsibility, the team's responsibility not to get it to work together with Daniel in the way we were hoping for, despite the great commitment that was taken on Daniel's side and on ours.

"That's part of not scoring the points as a team that you wanted or could have scored. It's part of the sport and that's something that we try to address or improve for next year."

Regardless of Ricciardo's situation, McLaren was generally outperformed by Alpine, whose frequent reliability issues kept McLaren in the race longer than it perhaps had any right to be.

Seidl acknowledged that P5 was a "fair reflection of where we have been throughout the season" and that Alpine deserved to finish ahead because it "did a better job".

Still, the disappointing Ricciardo-McLaren chapter ended on a high as the 33-year-old moved up from 13th to ninth in the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, and Seidl was pleased to finish the chapter in the best possible way.

"The entire weekend, including the farewell celebration that we had in the factory, the farewell celebration at the team barbecue on Thursday night, the three days here knowing that whatever we did was the last time together with Daniel, it was emotional," Seidl added.

"At the same time, we made sure throughout the weekend that we kept the focus on still trying to pull off the best possible result because we wanted to keep the pressure up on Alpine.

"The last time I wished Daniel a good race on the grid was emotional, but I think it was great to see that he was pulling off a good race for us. Getting back into the points from P13 was down to a great drive together with great work from his side of the garage and the pit wall.

"I think we finished our time together on the best possible high, which was the aim after all the announcements of the summer break."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/abu-dhabi-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026193/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mclaren-tests-new-floor-design-and-skate-at-abu-dhabi-gp/10401514/
DATE: 2022

While the Woking-based team is still locked in a tight fight for fourth place with  in the constructors’ championship, it is working hard on potential improvements to lift its chances next year.

That has manifested itself at the F1 season finale in Abu Dhabi with a modified floor, which features a revised floor edge geometry.

The new design has the wavy edge wing removed, and adopts a style that mirrors concepts used by rivals  and Red Bull.

This includes a much less complex edge to the floor, plus the addition of a ‘skate’ on the underside.

Compare McLaren's old floor (left) with the new one (right) below.

has explained that the tweaks are aimed at helping it better understand optimum car setups and where best the car can be positioned in relation to the ground.

“We aim to evaluate the effect of this floor edge on the car’s ride height behaviour,” it said.

The skate underneath the car is an idea that has been adopted by several teams and brings a multitude of benefits.

Its addition can not only help increase stiffness directly in that region of the floor, but it can also act as a skid in preventing the car’s underside bottoming out even more once it has touched the track.

Ferrari is the only other team to introduce aerodynamic updates in Abu Dhabi as it tests minor floor revisions in first free practice.

Test driver Robert Shwartzman ran with the new floor edge for what is a pure Friday test.

Ferrari F1-75 floor detail

The new floor edge component is a localised and minor update in front of the tyre cutout. It is aimed at improving flow quality into the rear diffuser.

Ferrari’s minor tweak comes after the squad admitted that it had to call a halt on developments recently because it had hit its spending limit until F1’s cost cap.

Team principal Mattia Binotto said after last weekend’s Brazilian Grand Prix: “We decided to stop the current one, because on top of this normal development on the current [car], you will need to produce the parts to bring them on track. And that was the extra costs that we couldn't afford.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mclaren-improving-on-fifth-difficult-without-new-f1-windtunnel/10400852/
DATE: 2022

Under Andreas Seidl's leadership,  enjoyed an upturn in fortunes and took third in the 2020 championship, followed by fourth place last year.

It is set to slide another place backwards this year, however, needing a miracle to overturn Alpine's 19-point lead in this weekend's Abu Dhabi season finale.

Chasing four manufacturer outfits Seidl admitted it would be difficult for McLaren to do any better than fifth given that its infrastructure is still lagging behind.

Among other projects, McLaren has been building a new wind tunnel in Woking for some time, but a series of delays means it won't come online until well into the 2023 season.

When asked by Motorsport.com if its wind tunnel deficit is the main reason for its slide from third to fifth, Seidl said it will be 'difficult to beat the works teams' until the squad can benefit from a "level playing field" on the infrastructure side.

But he also thought McLaren was outperforming with 2020's third-place finish because teams like  dropped the ball.

"If I look at the bigger picture, then I always had a realistic picture of where we are right now as a team," Seidl replied. "We have to acknowledge that with the works teams we have in front of us at the moment, with the infrastructure they have in place, if they do the same good job as us then it's simply difficult to beat them.

"If we look at the P3 we could score two years ago it was the result of us doing a very good job, overperforming to a certain degree and other teams underperforming.

"But the good thing is that we're working on all the deficits we are still having to the teams that are running in front of us.

"Thanks to the great commitment from our shareholders with the investments we are doing, we know we will get to a level playing field in the future.

While Red Bull, Ferrari and  proved well out of reach this year,  too had a faster car for much of the 22-race championship.

But a spate of reliability issues for the Enstone team kept McLaren in the fight for perhaps longer than it should have been, although Daniel Ricciardo's well documented struggles have not helped its cause either.

Andreas Seidl, Team Principal, McLaren, in the team principals Press Conference

Seidl accepts that fifth is therefore a fair outcome of the 2022 constructors' championship for McLaren.

"I'd say the ranking of the season is also a fair reflection of where we have been this season," he acknowledged, pointing out that McLaren still made progress in several operational areas that are less visible to the outside world.

"I'm very happy there's still a lot of positives in this season. A lot of things where we made steps, the operational side for example, methodologies and processes that we're using.

"In terms of further progressing we're staying flat out on completing our infrastructure projects, which will finally finish at some point next year, which will be key for making the next steps as a team in 2024 and 2025.

"Of course, we learned a lot about the weaknesses of our current car.

"Even with not having the infrastructures or projects in place - mainly the wind tunnel - for next year's development, I hope we still apply those learnings and make a step forward for next year. That's how I would judge the season.

"If we keep making steps as a team, which we did this year, even if it is not that visible in terms of results, I'm more than confident that we can make this step in the future and then get back to a position that we regularly fight for race wins."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sao-paulo-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026150/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-reserve-drivers-all-teams-backup-2023/10437681/
DATE: 2023

Formula 1 teams are well underway preparing for the forthcoming 2025 campaign, which will consist of 24 grands prix beginning in Melbourne on the 14-16 March.

The grid is set and all but two teams -  and Aston Martin - have changed their driver line-up, meaning this year will have a new look.

But it is not just the full-time competitors that play a crucial role, as a team’s back-up driver does as well.

Reserve drivers act on standby during grand prix weekends and may contest one should a team’s regular driver be unable to. This happened at the 2024 Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, for example, as .

F1 teams also employ simulator drivers, who test changes made to the car so that everybody can gain a greater understanding of the machine.

So, who are the drivers supporting their team behind the scenes for 2025?

Liam Lawson served as Red Bull’s reserve driver at the start of the 2024 season, but then .

. This means Red Bull is currently without an official reserve driver, though Lawson’s former team-mate Yuki Tsunoda is expected to step into the role.

Meanwhile, Rudy van Buren will continue as Red Bull’s simulator test and development driver after joining in 2023.

Rudy van Buren, Red Bull F1 Simulator Test and Development Driver

Photo: Red Bull Racing

, but in a reserve driver capacity having been ’s team-mate from 2017 to 2021. The 10-time grand prix winner left for  - now  - having been replaced by George Russell, who was previously at  after graduating to F1 as a Mercedes junior.

But the Swiss outfit opted for an all-new line-up this year ahead of its Audi takeover in 2026, leaving Bottas without a drive. So, in December 2024 Mercedes announced that the Finn was back with the Silver Arrows replacing former reserve Mick Schumacher, who is part of Alpine's Hypercar programme.

Sharing the role with Bottas is the 2023 F2 championship runner-up Frederik Vesti, who started the position last year having become a Mercedes junior in 2021.

, having been part of its academy between 2015 and 2018. He initially left to become Renault’s development driver in 2019 before making his F1 debut with Alfa Romeo in 2022 but, like Bottas, he was dropped by the Hinwil-based outfit for this year.

He will work alongside , who was Zhou's predecessor at Alfa Romeo. The Italian became Ferrari’s reserve driver in 2022 and Giovinazzi also competes for the historic brand in the World Endurance Championship, where he won the 2023 Le Mans 24 Hours.

Regarding Ferrari’s development drivers, that includes Arthur Leclerc who joined in 2024. He is the younger brother of full-time Ferrari driver  and is joined by  and Davide Rigon.

Zhou Guanyu, Ferrari reserve driver

McLaren is yet to announce who its reserve drivers for 2025 are, with previous incumbent . But Arrow McLaren IndyCar driver Pato O’Ward has previously contested F1 practice sessions for the Woking-based team, so it is likely he will continue his commitments.

McLaren also employs , who spends a lot of time in the team’s simulator where he works closely with the engineers and regular drivers.

Aston Martin has retained Felipe Drugovich and  as its reserve drivers for 2025. Previously the team was able to call on the reserves of engine partner Mercedes in case of an emergency but in more recent years, Aston Martin has introduced its own reserve drivers.

While Vandoorne joined from Mercedes in November 2022, Drugovich has graduated from the Aston Martin driver development programme and the 2022 F2 champion has worked with the squad since 2023.

Felipe Drugovich, Aston Martin F1 Team

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Jack Doohan will contest his first, full campaign in F1 this year after serving as Alpine’s reserve driver in 2024 before replacing  at the Abu Dhabi season finale.

As a result, Alpine has announced Paul Aron, Ryo Hirakawa and Franco Colapinto as its reserve drivers for 2025.

Aron had a stellar F2 campaign last year, finishing third to champion Gabriel Bortoleto and Isack Hadjar, while Hirakawa has joined from McLaren where he held a similar role.

There is more hype around Colapinto though, who made his - relatively unexpected - F1 debut in Monza 2024 having replaced Logan Sargeant at . He impressed immediately finishing 12th before taking points at his second grand prix in Azerbaijan with eighth.

But Williams had already announced  as ’s team-mate for 2025, so there was no full-time seat for Colapinto. As a result, , where a spot may soon open up for the young Argentine given Doohan’s unsecure future.

Williams does not currently employ its own reserve driver, as previous incumbent Colapinto has left for the same role at Alpine after impressing for the British squad in his nine-round stint last year.

Jamie Chadwick, meanwhile, serves as its development driver after joining Williams in 2019 which is the year she clinched her first of three W Series titles.

Jamie Chadwick, Williams

Hadjar served as Racing Bull’s reserve driver last year, when it was known as . But following Lawson’s promotion, Hadjar will partner Tsunoda for his rookie season leaving Racing Bulls currently without an official reserve driver.

Considering its close ties with Red Bull though, the Faenza-based squad can call on whomever is in the Red Bull pool.

Zane Maloney and Theo Pourchaire have left the Sauber set-up since acting as reserve drivers last year. The Swiss outfit is yet to confirm who will support its all-new line-up of  and Bortoleto before the squad morphs into the Audi works team in 2026.

Haas is also yet to announce its reserve driver for 2025 having promoted previous incumbent Bearman to a full-time seat at the American squad. One option could be Pietro Fittipaldi though, as the grandson of double world champion Emerson joined the team in 2019 and in that time has started two races due to ’s crash at the 2020 Bahrain Grand Prix.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/2024-f1-season-driver-lineup-calendar/10553574/
DATE: 2023

Last year was dominated by  and , with a few teams such as  and  starting to improve their car towards the end of the year.

is set for a name change in 2024 after its current title sponsorship will come to an end. The team is expected to change its name to the Sauber brand for 2024, before its transformation into the Audi works team in 2026.

Red Bull’s junior team  will also face a name change in 2024, with the team wanting to return to a non-branded name like it’s previous Toro Rosso guise. Although the rebrand is yet to be announced there is rumours the team could be called Racing Bulls.

Although there are not many massive changes heading into 2024, a new record-breaking 24 race calendar will make this the biggest year ever for the championship.

Here’s everything you need to know about the 2024 F1 season:

There are no changes to the 2023 F1 grid as we go into the new season. Every team has stuck with the drivers that they ended the season with, but many contracts set to expire at the end of 2024.

Daniel Ricciardo has also secured his place at AlphaTauri after the team axed  midway through 2023. Speculation that Sergio Perez could also lose his place at Red Bull following a difficult mid-season has been dismissed, which includes rumours that Ricciardo could be moved into the team next year.

Although the grid is not changing from the latter half of the previous season, 2024 could prove more interesting with 13 out of 20 seats up for contention at the end of next year.

F1 teams have begun to announce the dates for their 2024 car launches ahead of the new season. Pre-season testing begins on 21 February (two days earlier than 2023), so it is expected that teams will reveal their cars slightly earlier than the last season. In 2023, cars were launched between 31 January and 16 February.

Here are the F1 car launch dates for 2024:

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB19, Charles Leclerc, Ferrari SF-23, Carlos Sainz, Ferrari SF-23, Sergio Perez, Red Bull Racing RB19, the rest of the field at the start

30 August–1 September

29 November–1 December

The 2024 F1 season will begin on 29 February and will see a record-breaking 24 race season. The calendar has been regionalised by the FIA in an attempt to make the series more sustainable, including moving the Japanese GP to April from its usual September spot for a more defined Asian leg.

The Chinese GP will make its return to the F1 calendar after being cancelled for the last four years. The Qatar GP will become the penultimate race of the season, which should help with the heat issue faced by drivers in 2023 but will also make transportation of cars and equipment to the Abu Dhabi finale easier.

F1’s pre-season testing for 2024 will begin on 21 February in Bahrain. There will be three days of testing for the teams ahead of the first grand prix the following week.

The FIA has also revealed that pre-season testing will run each day between 10am to 7pm, instead of the previous 7:30pm which happened in 2023.

The testing sessions will take place in Bahrain to help with the FIA’s conscious efforts to make the series more sustainable. This means the cars and equipment will not need transporting between pre-season testing and the first grand prix of the year.

Testing will run between 10am and 7pm after the FIA reduced the timings down from 7:30pm.

Photo by: Mercedes AMG

Lewis Hamilton, George Russell, Mick Schumacher, Mercedes Reserve Driver, Toto Wolff, Mercedes F1 Team Team Principal and CEO, Mercedes W14

The FIA has made some changes to regulations around the testing of old cars, stipulating that any components run must have been previously used at a race weekend.  has been revised to state: "Cars must only use components and software of a specification that have been used in at least one (1) Competition or TCC (testing of a current car) of a Championship season."

The regulation change will ensure that teams cannot run any brand-new components on an old car to try and gain any date outside of testing restrictions.

The F1 teams have begun to announce their 2024 reserve drivers for the upcoming season. Some of the teams have retained their 2023 reserve drivers including Red Bull rookie Liam Lawson and Mercedes’ Mick Schumacher.

However some teams have decided to bring in brand new drivers, including McLaren who have announced two new drivers to their line-up. The team has announced it will sign this year’s 24 Hours of Le Mans winner Ryo Hirakawa and IndyCar driver Pato O’Ward as reserve drivers for the next season.

Photo by: Simon Galloway /

Sergio Perez, Red Bull Racing, 3rd position, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, 1st position, Lando Norris, McLaren, 2nd position, with their Sprint race trophies

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/norris-self-criticism-led-to-some-of-my-best-f1-races-in-2023/10562141/
DATE: 2023

Norris finished sixth in the 2023 drivers’ standings, marking his joint best championship finish in his F1 career, with a personal best of seven podiums.

But it was his  team-mate  who took one of only two non-Red Bull wins from 28 possible chances, after the Australian won in the Qatar Grand Prix sprint from world champion .

Norris felt there he “should have fought for two pole positions and potentially two victories” but for qualifying errors, while a late Q1 mistake following a fuel system check in Mexico meant he started down in 19th before charging back to fifth.

The British driver also lost a chance to claim pole for the Abu Dhabi GP due to a mistake in the final sector of his last Q3 lap.

Norris was notably self-critical after his most high-profile mistakes in 2023, saying “I’m so s**t sometimes” over his team radio after his track limits error in Qatar GP qualifying.

McLaren team principal Andrea Stella was then moved to say in Abu Dhabi that “the way he addresses his own performance, I think deserves attention because he just seems very harsh on himself”.

Photo by: Jake Grant /

Lando Norris, McLaren, talks to the media

But Norris himself feels: “I’m, as much as I get annoyed with myself on Saturdays at times and people are like, ‘you shouldn’t beat yourself up’ and all of that stuff, a lot of my best performances come then on that next day”.

“And it doesn’t effect me when I go and drive the next day, because I’m like, ‘oh I still just messed up Saturday’,” Norris said in an exclusive interview with Motorsport.com.

“Just because I say it and things, it doesn’t mean that. And I think a lot of people have different opinions on it, but I’ve always been that way.

“Since karting, I’ve always been like that. It’s the way I got brought up and it’s the way I’ve developed into being the driver that I am today.

“And, at times, maybe it’s not the best thing and I do get just very frustrated and down over a lot of it, but just because I care about doing a good job and trying to deliver for the team.

“So, I do it, not that I just purposely try to do it, but because it’s just the way that I work best. And it’s the way that I’m able to bounce back best.

“Therefore, I’ve always just been very honest when I think I’ve done a good job and bad job.”

Norris also said of his overall performances in 2023 that “it was clear that there’s places I need to work on and places I didn’t always deliver as much as I should’ve done”.

He continued: “But there’s also a lot of cases of once that did happen, how did I come back from that and overcome that the next day?

“Which was generally the letdowns on a Saturday and making up for it on a Saturday. And I think I did exactly that.

“95% of the time was, yeah, even when I made those mistakes, which I’m always happy to admit and I’ve always said and so on, was how do I bounce back the next day and turn up on Sunday with the kind of clear mindset of, ‘OK, I’m starting in this position, how can I do my best job from here?’

“And I think all of those races genuinely were… actually turned out to be some of my better races!”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-tech-review-mclaren-reverses-fortunes-poor-start/10562307/
DATE: 2023

A regular stream of parts were added to the car throughout its campaign, so let’s take a detailed look at some of the MCL60’s finer details and those crucial upgrades in full.

Mclaren MCL60 technical detail

A close up of the forward, scrolled section of the MCL60’s edge wing, with three strakes used to help control the passage of the airflow as it’s sent outboard. Also note the metal support brackets which are shaped and oriented to influence the airflow’s direction.

A look at the triple inlet pipework connected to the airbox that delivers cool air to the saddle cooler atop the power unit and to the internal combustion engine.

McLaren MCL60 technical detail

Under the brake drum cover there’s a collection of tracts used to deliver cool air to the various brake components.

McLaren MCL60 floor comparison

made changes to its floor edge at the Azerbaijan Grand Prix, shifting from a full-length edge wing to a shorter variant with the floor tapering thereafter. The rear portion of the floor around the cutout and the raised trailing edge were also amended.

McLaren MCL60 rear detail

A bi-plane beam wing arrangement was utilised in Baku, with a slatted element placed further forward than the lower loaded element.

McLaren MCL60 front brake detail

The front brake duct without all the internal fairings in place gives us a view of the brake caliper and its fins and cutouts used to help manage temperatures.

McLaren MCL60 technical detail

McLaren’s high downforce rear wing and beam wing combination for the Monaco Grand Prix.

A close up of the leading edge of the floor and the fences, including the inboard one which sits above the tide line.

The short, scrolled, edge wing section at the front of the MCL60’s floor

McLaren MCL60 technical detail

Another angle, looking at the leading edge of the MCL60’s floor and the floor fences, of which the inboard one is isolated, as the other three sit in the outer boundary.

McLaren side comparison (Silverstone endplate Inset)

A significant update package arrived at the Austrian Grand Prix, with ’ MCL60 outfitted with the new parts, while  had to wait until the British Grand Prix for the overhauled layout. The revisions included a new floor fence arrangement [1] and a new sidepod inlet with a raised lower edge that also increased the size of the sidepod undercut [2].

The forward section of the floor was modified, with changes around the topside blister most noticeable but this clearly had an impact on the underfloor’s geometry [3]. The mirror and halo architecture were updated [4 & 5], whilst the shape and length of their downwash ramped sidepod bodywork was also updated [6 & 7].

This had a knock-on effect with the engine cover and cooling arrangements which both had to be modified as a consequence [8, 9 & 11]. Meanwhile, the rear floor cutout was removed and the floor's edge redesigned to suit [10].

They followed this up with an update to the front wing and endplate at the British Grand Prix (inset).

McLaren MCL60 technical detail

An overview of the new and old front wings with the new wing sporting the open-ended flap and endplate juncture (top).

McLaren MCL60 nose comparison

The shape of the nose and how it interacted with the front wing was also modified for Silverstone.

The MCL60’s rear end detached from the rest of the car, with the metal framework of the mounting pillar, some of the inboard suspension details and the rear cooler.

The floor and bib section before being attached to the car, which gives us a great view of the floor fences.

Photo by: Roberto Chinchero

McLaren MCL60 bodywork detail

The internal bodywork baffles also work in conjunction with the cooling gills on the external bodywork.

McLaren MCL60 rear wing comparison Monza/Zandvoort

A new rear wing tip section arrived at the Dutch Grand Prix, which featured the open-ended arrangement that many of their rivals had already adopted. A closed endplate cutout panel featured at the Belgian Grand Prix, a design which had been used extensively by  during 2022 and 2023 (inset) but had its origins with  in 2022.

McLaren MCL60 brake drum detail

A look at the rear brake assembly without all the fairings in place provides some insight into how the cool air is delivered to the various components.

McLaren MCL60 technical detail

A rare glimpse of the underside of the nose and front wing assembly.

McLaren MCL60 technical detail

Flo-viz paint doused over the rear wing and beam wing at the Italian Grand Prix, as the team looked for visual confirmation that they’re performing as expected.

McLaren MCL60 Singapore GP

Another massive update package arrived at the Singapore Grand Prix, with changes made to the sidepod and engine cover bodywork to better incorporate the gullies that we’d seen from some of its rivals.

McLaren MCL60 technical detail

A close up of the deeper gulley present in the ramped section of the MCL60’s sidepod.

McLaren MCL60 technical detail

Another angle showing off the new sidepod bodywork also gives a view of the revised edge wing design.

McLaren MCL60 rear wing detail

McLaren also introduced another variant of the open-ended tip section, with a much broader section used to increase the wing’s span, used by Norris.

McLaren MCL60 floor development

A new edge wing and floor was also installed on the MCL60, which once again elongated the edge wing, albeit it now tapered to the rear of the floor.

McLaren utilised a Kiel probe rake below the rear wing in Mexico in order to capture data on the performance of the wing and the surrounding components.

Photo by: Filip Cleeren

McLaren MCL60 technical detail

A low downforce rear wing and a bi-plane style beam wing was employed in Las Vegas.

Here’s the list of the components that McLaren listed as having changed in the car presentation document prior to each race.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/stella-praises-norris-help-in-mclaren-f1-car-development-despite-stress-to-win/10561709/
DATE: 2023

After winning the 2021 Italian Grand Prix – where Norris was second behind then team-mate  – and finishing fourth in the constructors’ championship that year after being third in 2020 following considerable rebuilding effort,  slipped back to fifth in 2022.

Its slide initially continued into 2023, where Norris and new team-mate  struggled to get the MCL60 out of Q1 early on, before a much-vaunted upgrade programme delivered impressive gains that catapulted McLaren up the order.

It eventually reached a position where it was Red Bull’s closest challenger for much of the second half of the season.

Stella, appointed team principal after Andreas Seidl left to run Sauber ahead of Audi’s entry in 2026 late last year, has gained many plaudits for McLaren’s turnaround so far on his watch, but the Italian himself is keen to highlight Norris’s role in the orange team’s gains.

This was particularly because McLaren’s current lack of race-winning potential meant Norris has had to watch the rivals he grew up racing, such as , or his first F1 team-mate, , become race winners in the meantime.

“Lando is in a phase of his career which he kind of feels the pressure of: ‘I want to win a race, I want to be there with the guys that I know I’m as good as and I see them winning races’,” Stella told Autosport in an exclusive interview.

“I can really understand, the team can really understand the kind of stress that this can create.

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Lando Norris, McLaren MCL60 battles with Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB19 at the start of the race

“The first thing for me I would like to say is how good he was in coping with this stress.

“Because some other drivers could have reverted, could have transferred their stress onto the team.

“Could have said: ‘guys, I’m here, I’m ready to perform, but where is the car?’ Never heard anything like this [from Lando].

“His contribution, his support to the team has always been very constructive.”

Stella also praised new McLaren signing Oscar Piastri for “the way he keeps himself calm, controlled” on his way to ninth in the 2023 standings with two podiums and victory in the Qatar sprint race accrued during his rookie campaign.

“Therefore, always capitalising on his potential because he doesn’t create any unnecessary stress,” Stella added.

“That’s quite exceptional. And I can see why he was so successful in junior categories [where Piastri scored back-to-back Formula 3 and Formula 2 titles – a la  and Russell – in 2020 and 2021].”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/max-verstappen-f1-hit-shocking-fee/10558565/
DATE: 2023

Verstappen will be reportedly charged over €1.2 million to for the superlicense he needs to compete again next year.

The three-time world champion won 19 of the 22 races in 2023 which, with licenses increasing in cost for every point a driver scores, will result in a massive charge from the FIA.

Thankfully for Verstappen, the hefty fee for next year won’t be paid by himself, as he revealed: “The team pays that, fortunately.”

He told Dutch broadcaster Viaplay: “I do think there should be some normal ratio in that. But you know, things like that get written down, and I don’t think anybody expected that there would end up being that many points scored.”

Red Bull is the only team to confirm they will pay the superlicence fee for Verstappen and it is not known whether his team-mate  or other drivers will have to pay their own fees.

Verstappen finished the season with 575 points in 2023, which is the most points ever secured by a driver in a season. However, Verstappen’s dominance has left the driver with an eye-watering cost to ensure he can drive next year.

The Dutchman had previously branded the costs as “absurd” where he added: “I don’t think it’s right that we have to pay so much. It’s not the case in other sports either. And there are more and more races.”

Fortunately for Red Bull the driver salaries and fees are not included in the FIA’s budget cap which ensures teams limit spending and gives a more level playing field to each team.

Team principal Christian Horner also told Viaplay: “I mean, it’s a luxury problem to have because we’ve had to score the points to generate the invoice. Thankfully, it’s outside of the budget cap. But yeah, it’s a big cheque to be writing to the FIA.”

An FIA superlicence is the highest type of licence available and is a mandatory requirement by any driver who wants to compete in Formula 1. The licence is awarded to drivers by the F1 governing body, the FIA.

The superlicence was first introduced in the 1990s, but a governing age was added in 2015, following Verstappen’s debut in 2015. Verstappen was 17 years and 166 days old when he first made his F1 debut, with the FIA adding the rule to prevent potentially unsafe and inexperienced drivers from competing.

Photo by: Sutton Images

Max Verstappen, Toro Rosso

Drivers must complete a series of requirements to be rewarded their superlicence, including being at least 18 years old when they would first compete in F1, hold a valid driving licence and pass an FIA theory test of the F1 sporting codes and regulations.

Those who have held a superlicence for the previous three seasons are still eligible to apply for a new one if they plan to make their return to F1. This means that drivers such as , who was dropped from  in the first half of the 2023 season, could reapply for their superlicence and make his F1 return in the next few years.

The mandatory superlicence reportedly consists of a €10,400 base figure that every driver must pay to ensure they can compete in the following season. There is also a reported additional charge of €2,100 for every point scored in the season that has just passed.

Verstappen secured 575 points in the 2023 season which comes with a staggering additional cost to the drivers superlicence, with each point achieved costing the driver an additional €2,100. Having scored 575 points in 2023, Verstappen’s licence fee is sat at €1,217,900.

Here’s the full list of how much each driver will reportedly have to pay for their 2024 superlicence:

According to these numbers, the total figure that the FIA will receive from F1’s drivers in 2024, to allow them to race, is €5,380,200.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-2023-team-mate-head-to-head-battles/10558543/
DATE: 2023

out-qualified  team-mate  yet again in the season finale, which meant the 27-year-old finished the F1 season as the only driver to have out-qualified his team-mate for every race in 2023.

Sargeant struggled in his rookie campaign with Albon always proving superior, but other driver pairings were much closer. So how did each driver compare to their team-mate in the 2023 F1 season?

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Arguably one of the most one-sided pairings in 2023 was Red Bull, as Verstappen proved too much for Perez. The triple world champion clinched the title with six grands prix to spare and set many records in doing so.

One record was for the biggest points gap to second in the championship, with the margin bigger than the total points Perez amassed across 2023. While Verstappen was consistently claiming the race wins, Perez often struggled for a podium finish despite Red Bull’s superiority over the rest of the grid.

Perez did start the season pretty well with two victories in the opening four races, as well as second in Bahrain. But from Miami onwards, Verstappen took it to another level leaving Perez to struggle and doubts to linger over his Red Bull future.

The pressure is on the Mexican to improve significantly in 2024, which is the final year of his contract.

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Hamilton bounced back from a disappointing 2022 where Russell, in his first season at Mercedes, beat him in the standings and became the third team-mate of the seven-time world champion - after  (2011) and  (2016) - to do so.

But the roles reversed in 2023 and Russell said “this year the drivers’ championship has just been a complete disaster”. Hamilton, meanwhile, was one of F1’s best, being the highest-placed driver behind Red Bull’s pair in the standings with a pole position in Hungary his standout result.

Nevertheless, on the whole it has been a disappointing season for Mercedes who failed to claim a race victory for the first time since 2011. Much work is to be done if they are to improve on their second-place finish from 2023 and become world champions once again.

Crucial to that target is the drivers, who remain committed to the project having recently signed new contracts. Hamilton and Russell have a good relationship with much respect between the two, despite their collision in Qatar where the 38-year-old retired on lap one after turning in on his team-mate at the opening corner.

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Carlos Sainz, Scuderia Ferrari with Charles Leclerc, Scuderia Ferrari watching a magic show

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

5 (includes 1 DNS and 1 DSQ)

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Leclerc and Sainz have been team-mates for three seasons now, yet it’s always close between the two. 2023 was a clear example of that as just six points separated both drivers in the championship going in the favour of Leclerc, but Sainz might be the happier one as it’s him who got the race victory.

Meanwhile, Leclerc often has the upper hand in qualifying, winning that battle 15-7 - including five pole positions compared to Sainz’s two. Things might be tight, yet 2023 was not their closest statistically as Sainz beat Leclerc in the 2021 championship by just five and a half points.

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Norris comfortably beat former team-mate  in the championship for two consecutive years, so McLaren wanted closer competition in 2023. Piastri gave it exactly that as he impressed in his rookie season which earned the 22-year-old a new contract that expires in 2026.

While the head-to-heads ended at 17-5 and 15-7 to Norris in the grand prix and qualifying battles respectively, much of that was at the beginning of the year when Piastri was still trying to adapt to F1. Once he did, things were much closer.

Piastri out-qualified Norris in five of the 10 grands prix after the summer break, which included a victory in the Qatar GP sprint race, while a win of any kind in F1 still eludes the Briton.

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

was a much-improved team in 2023 as they jumped up to fifth in the championship after finishing seventh in 2022. This included eight podiums and three front-row starts, yet that was all done by Alonso who dominated team-mate Stroll.

While Alonso was often fighting for podium positions, Stroll was in the midfield, with the Canadian only achieving three top-five finishes - two of which came in the final three grands prix. But his seat is still secure for 2024 where he will hope to close the gap on Alonso.

Aston Martin also need to ensure its results remain consistent throughout a season. Its form tailed off towards the end of 2023 as six of Alonso’s podiums came in the opening eight grands prix, which left Aston Martin third in the constructors’ championship until they fell behind Ferrari and McLaren in the final 14 rounds.

Pierre Gasly, Alpine A523, Esteban Ocon, Alpine A523

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

There was very little to separate the Alpine team-mates in Gasly’s first season with the team, but Ocon could blame that on misfortune. He retired more times than any other F1 driver in 2023, much of which was down to reliability - his failed gearbox in Singapore being just one example.

This led to the drivers being matched head-to-head in race results, but Gasly comfortably beat Ocon in the qualifying battle. That might give Gasly extra satisfaction considering it’s against Ocon, who has been his rival since childhood.

There was much anticipation at the beginning of 2023 over how the two will fare as team-mates given their history - the two often collided when competing against each other as children in karting - but on the whole Ocon and Gasly have worked well together and things have not flared up.

That’s despite it being a disappointing season for Alpine, who finished sixth - two places lower than their position in 2022.

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Williams very much had the most one-sided driver pairing in 2023. Albon really impressed this season with several point finishes and Q3 appearances, therefore showing why he is capable of leading the team forward.

Yet it was a different story in the opposite side of his garage. Sargeant struggled during his rookie season which is evident in the qualifying record versus Albon, while only beating him in three grands prix. However, those three occasions were because Albon retired so in races where both drivers finished the Thai-British driver was always ahead.

Sargeant did score a point, but it only came as a result of Hamilton and Leclerc being disqualified from the United States GP. Despite the struggles, Williams has retained Sargeant for 2024 so he should do much better in his sophomore year.

Points scored during brief spell as team-mates

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix wins during brief spell as team-mates

Pole positions during brief spell as team-mates

Podiums during brief spell as team-mates

Best finish during brief spell as team-mates

Retirements during brief spell as team-mates

Fastest laps during brief spell as team-mates

Grand prix points finishes during brief spell as team-mates

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint race wins during brief spell as team-mates

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Sprint race podiums during brief spell as team-mates

The team-mate battle at AlphaTauri is very messy given how many times the team changed its line-up in 2023. Beginning the season was Tsunoda and de Vries until the F1 rookie was dropped after 10 grands prix for poor performances.

De Vries left AlphaTauri having failed to score a point while at the time, Tsunoda had two. The 23-year-old comfortably won the qualifying battle as well, as de Vries struggled throughout his tenure with six bottom-five finishes including two retirements.

Photo by: Jake Grant /

Daniel Ricciardo, Scuderia AlphaTauri, Yuki Tsunoda, Scuderia AlphaTauri

Points scored during brief spell as team-mates

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix wins during brief spell as team-mates

Pole positions during brief spell as team-mates

Podiums during brief spell as team-mates

Best finish during brief spell as team-mates

Retirements during brief spell as team-mates

Fastest laps during brief spell as team-mates

Grand prix points finishes during brief spell as team-mates

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint race wins during brief spell as team-mates

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Sprint race podiums during brief spell as team-mates

Ricciardo replaced de Vries for the Hungarian GP, which marked his return to F1 after leaving McLaren at the end of 2022. Ricciardo immediately had the better of Tsunoda by beating him in qualifying and the race at the Hungaroring, but the Japanese driver levelled both scores a week later in Belgium.

Yet Ricciardo then spent a lengthy time on the sideline, as he broke his hand during second practice for the Dutch GP. He returned two months later at the United States GP where things were once again tight between Ricciardo and Tsunoda.

In the final five grands prix, Tsunoda out-qualified and out-raced his team-mate on three occasions while scoring 15 points compared to Ricciardo's six. The two will remain team-mates in 2024, where there’s potentially a shot at a Red Bull seat for the following season.

Points scored during brief spell as team-mates

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix wins during brief spell as team-mates

Pole positions during brief spell as team-mates

Podiums during brief spell as team-mates

Best finish during brief spell as team-mates

Retirements during brief spell as team-mates

Fastest laps during brief spell as team-mates

Grand prix points finishes during brief spell as team-mates

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint race wins during brief spell as team-mates

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Sprint race podiums during brief spell as team-mates

While Ricciardo was injured, Red Bull junior Lawson stepped in to become Tsunoda’s third team-mate of 2023. Lawson, who finished third in the 2022 F2 Championship, immediately impressed coming close to points in Zandvoort and Monza before a ninth-place finish at the Singapore GP after he pulled off a shock Q3 appearance at Marina Bay Street Circuit.

Lawson then finished 11th in Japan, but was well out of contention in Qatar for his final grand prix. In terms of race results, he performed better than Tsunoda and was therefore touted for an F1 seat in 2024 but that did not present itself. Lawson will be the team’s reserve driver next year, but the expectation is that he will eventually be on the grid full-time.

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Zhou is firmly holding his own against Alfa Romeo team-mate Bottas, with the 10-time grand prix winner beating the Chinese driver by just four points in the championship. It came in Zhou’s second F1 season, where he also narrowly lost the grand prix battle against Bottas.

But qualifying is where Zhou needs to improve as Bottas won that battle comfortably. On the whole though, it was an underwhelming year for the team with Alfa Romeo finishing ninth in the championship.

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Kevin Magnussen, Haas VF-23, leads Nico Hulkenberg, Haas VF-23

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Hulkenberg made his return to F1 in 2023 after losing his full-time seat with Renault at the end of 2019. Yet it was like he’d never been away as he beat team-mate Magnussen in the championship, while winning both race and qualifying battles quite comfortably.

That driver pairing was one to watch in 2023 due to their history together, where at the 2017 Hungarian GP Hulkenberg called Magnussen “the most unsporting driver on the grid” after being pushed off the track while attempting an overtake.

However, there was very little drama between the two in their first year as team-mates and they actually worked pretty well together. Hulkenberg and Magnussen have been retained by Haas for 2024, but they will be hoping for a more competitive car after the team finished bottom of the championship.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-how-teams-performed-2023-compared-2022/10558033/
DATE: 2023

The 2023 F1 season witnessed mega dominance by  who continued its fine form from 2022, while many other teams had vastly different campaigns to the year before.

and  both moved up the championship order quite significantly, while  and  dropped down.

But many others were up and down, too. So how did each F1 team perform in the 2023 season compared to 2022 and were there any shocks on the grid?

*Wins, pole positions and podiums don’t include sprint races

Red Bull had a truly dominant 2022 season where it clinched the constructors’ championship with three rounds left, while  won a record-breaking 15 grands prix in a year. Considering such success, the question was how could Red Bull improve for 2023 - but that was something they managed to do.

The RB19 broke several records which arguably makes it the most dominant car in F1 history, where 21 grands prix wins helped Red Bull score over double the points tally of its runner-up .

Key to Red Bull’s dominance was once again Verstappen, who broke his own record for most wins in a season (19) plus many others to clinch a third consecutive drivers’ title.

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

Sergio Pérez, Max Verstappen with the 2023 trophies at Red Bull's Milton Keynes factory

Mercedes ended 2022 with big disappointment, as the Silver Arrows got its narrow sidepod design significantly wrong and saw a run of eight consecutive championships ended by Red Bull. But, statistically, 2023 was even worse despite Mercedes adding wider sidepods onto its car for Monaco, which was the season’s sixth round.

The team had its first winless campaign since 2011 while scoring less than half of their podium tally from 2022. Mercedes often struggled to find the ideal operating window for its car during a weekend with set-up sometimes changing from session to session.

However, there was still a positive moment as  took pole for the Hungarian Grand Prix during a year where the seven-time world champion delivered impressive performances en route to third in the championship, despite his car’s struggles.

It was a different story for team-mate , who finished eighth in the drivers’ standings with just two of the team’s eight podiums to his name.

Photo by: Steven Tee /

Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes F1 W14, makes a stop

Ferrari had a season to forget as it slipped to third in the championship scoring 148 points less than 2022. The Scuderia’s biggest struggle was excessive tyre wear and inconsistent race pace which left them 454 points behind world champions Red Bull.

This was made worse as they arguably started 2022 with the quickest car, as Ferrari began that year with a 1-2 in Bahrain and led the Austrian squad by 49 points after three races.

Since the Australian GP in April 2022 though, Ferrari has won just three grands prix and look very far from any kind of title challenge:  finished fifth in the drivers’ standings, while , whose win in Singapore was the only non-Red Bull victory of 2023, came seventh.

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Carlos Sainz, Ferrari SF-23, Charles Leclerc, Ferrari SF-23

The turnaround McLaren had in 2023 was remarkable. It started the year as a backmarker with no points in the opening two races, but wholesale updates for the grands prix in July turned their fortunes around. What it caused was nine podiums, plus a sprint race victory, in the latter half of the 2023 season, which lifted McLaren up to fourth in the championship from sixth before the upgrades.

Another reason for McLaren’s revival was that it finally had both cars consistently fighting for higher positions. Rookie  replaced the struggling , who rarely challenged  in their two years as team-mates.

Norris scored 77% of McLaren’s points in 2022, which dropped to 68% in 2023 and helped them to challenge the likes of Ferrari and Mercedes - sometimes Red Bull even.

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Oscar Piastri, McLaren MCL60, 1st position, takes the chequered flag in the sprint as his team cheers from the pit wall

Aston Martin was one of the surprise packages in 2023, as it already surpassed its 2022 points tally after three grands prix. The British outfit started the season with the second-quickest car, as  consistently stood on the podium alongside both Red Bull drivers.

This came after very aggressive developments over the winter, which resulted in the AMR23 being 2.4 seconds quicker than its predecessor in the first qualifying session of the season. However, other teams eventually caught up and overtook Aston Martin in the championship as it brought limited upgrades to the car, scoring just two podiums in the final 14 grands prix.

Nevertheless, it was a remarkable turnaround from 2022 when Aston Martin started that year without a point in the opening three races and its best result was sixth in Azerbaijan, Singapore and Japan.

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

Fernando Alonso, Aston Martin AMR23

Alpine had an underwhelming 2023, dropping two positions in the championship and scoring 53 fewer points. A large reason for this was the inconsistent A523 car which usually suffered at high-speed and low-downforce circuits, while reliability was often a problem with  retiring from six grands prix. The management turmoil did not help matters either, as Laurent Rossi, Otmar Szafnauer and Alan Permane all left midway through the season.

But there were some positive moments for the French outfit, who scored two podiums with its new driver line-up. Ocon claimed third in Monaco, while  achieved the same result in Zandvoort en route to the drivers finishing 11th and 12th in the standings.

So, it was a very up-and-down season for Alpine who finished a very comfortable sixth and showed much less consistency than 2022 where the team scored points in all but three grands prix.

Photo by: Erik Junius

Esteban Ocon, Alpine F1 A523

Williams was one of the most improved teams in 2023 as the British outfit achieved its highest finishing position since 2017, after coming last in four of the following five seasons. Key to Williams’ improvement was its frightening straight-line speed where  topped the speed trap in Canada at 213.1mph.

The 27-year-old had a terrific season, finishing 13th in the championship – six places higher than 2022 – with 27 points, yet team-mate  struggled. The rookie scored just one point, which came because Leclerc and Hamilton were both disqualified from the United States GP, but Sargeant has still been retained for 2024.

A new team principal in James Vowles was also behind Williams’ improved form, and the team now look in good stead to build on their seventh-place finish rather than dropping back down to last.

Photo by: Jake Grant /

Alex Albon, Williams FW45

AlphaTauri improved significantly towards the end of 2023 thanks to a largely updated package. The Italian outfit scored 22 of their 25 points after the summer break, which caused AlphaTauri to rise from bottom to eighth in the constructors’ championship and bring it closer to its 2022 total.

A factor behind this was the improved performances of , who beat his 2022 points tally (12) by five, climbed three positions in the standings to come 14th and showed much greater consistency in his fight for a top-10 finish.

The 23-year-old adopted more of a team leader role following the departure of Gasly, while the seat alongside him was never quite settled with Tsunoda having three separate team-mates across 2023.

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Liam Lawson, AlphaTauri AT04

Alfa Romeo started the ground effect era with much promise as it scored a double points finish in the 2022 season-opening Bahrain GP. That contributed to a points tally of 51 in the opening nine grands prix before scoring just four in the following 13, as Alfa was slow on upgrades in the latter half of 2022.

Unfortunately for the team it has struggled to rediscover its form from the start of that season as the Swiss outfit scored just 16 points across 2023. It happened because the team failed to meet targets they set for the season, meaning Alfa was largely playing catch-up when it came to upgrades.

It resulted in  finishing 15th in the drivers’ championship, five places lower than 2022, while Zhou Guanyu came 18th in both seasons.

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Valtteri Bottas, Alfa Romeo C43

Much like Alfa Romeo, Haas began the ground effect era with plenty to be positive about. The American squad started 2022 with points in three of the opening four races after starting development on its VF-22 much earlier than others.

Haas finished the year eighth in the championship, which included a shock pole position for  in rain-hit Brazil, but things were much different in 2023. Its car really struggled with the overheating of tyres meaning Haas had a big disadvantage in races.

Despite solid efforts from its drivers  - who returned to F1 for 2023 - and Magnussen, Haas claimed just four points finishes in the season which left them bottom of the standings.

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Kevin Magnussen, Haas VF-23, leads Nico Hulkenberg, Haas VF-23

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mclaren-wont-create-false-expectations-for-2024-for-risk-of-violent-reality/10557207/
DATE: 2023

enjoyed a remarkable form turnaround in 2023 after a string of mid-season upgrades turned the MCL60 driven by  and  car into a regular podium contender.

The upturn in form, which was the result of a technical restructure implemented by incoming team principal Stella, allowed the Woking squad to overtake Aston Martin for fourth in the constructors' championship.

Its upward trajectory is a cause for optimism for 2024, which will see the first car developed using McLaren's brand-new Woking wind tunnel as well as other upgraded facilities.

But Stella is cautious not to set elevated expectations next year.

"Ultimately in Formula 1, we have the luxury of it being quite quantitative," he said.

"You see what kind of progress you are making in the wind tunnel and the computer simulations and you kind of know that a certain [development] rate will mean two tenths, half a second, seven tenths better at the start of the season.

"Realistically, we know that if you want to retain your competitiveness going into next season, you need to have half a second in hand. Otherwise, it's like what we have seen at the end of a season, it looks like you're moving backwards. It's just because you are steady and everyone is catching up.

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Andrea Stella, Team Principal, McLaren

"So, we will first of all look at the data. We already know pretty much this data, which I won't comment on. And then based on that, we will position the entire team internally and externally.

"We don't have to create false expectations because then reality comes to you in a violent way and we don't want to find ourselves in this position.

"At the same time, we don't want to downplay too much and then find we weren't ready to fight at the front and we didn't make good decisions because of that. So just to stick with the data, be realistic, be honest. That's our philosophy."

Stella alludes to a small regression in race pace over 2023's final events since its final major upgrade in Singapore, which he writes down to McLaren's development of its MCL60 being largely finished after Singapore while other teams continued bringing small steps.

"The way I structure the season is we started uncompetitive, took a step in Austria, another step in Singapore. But there's a final phase of the season in which we have been steady from a development point of view," Stella pointed out.

"Many cars have brought upgrades, some of which have been quite successful. So, it's a phase in which it's not like we have degraded our performance, simply some other cars have closed the gap on us or have even overtaken us.

"Definitely, if we want to enjoy some of the results we have enjoyed in this third phase after Singapore, we do have to make a further step forward going on to next season."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sun-norris-couldnt-ask-for-better-f1-team-principal-than-stella/10556560/
DATE: 2023

Stella was formerly a  executive director but took over day-to-day running of the F1 squad following the winter departure of team principal Andreas Seidl to Sauber.

Seidl remains highly rated in the paddock, but Stella gained plaudits throughout 2023 for overhauling the McLaren technical structure, which paved the way for an aggressive run of upgrades that turned the MCL60 into a car capable of regularly putting pressure on .

McLaren staff also like the aspirational precedent that has been set, since the Italian engineer was promoted from within to the top job. They also rate Stella as a very effective communicator.

For these reasons, Norris reckons there is no better candidate to lead McLaren. Asked by Motorsport.com whether the paddock was right to be so won over by Stella, he replied: “[I feel] exactly the same.

“I did an interview the other day [in Abu Dhabi], and I just said big thanks to him… I think it's not everything just on him. You've got to thank a lot of other people in the team, because they're the ones who have done a lot of the work.

“Andrea is just the director of it all. He's the producer of the set, and everyone else is the cast but you need everyone to work together very well. That's what they're doing. So, he's done an amazing job. I'm very, very happy with having him where he is.

“He still does a lot for the team every single weekend in terms of racing and qualifying and all of that. But I can't ask for a better team principal.”

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Andrea Stella, Team Principal, McLaren

On Stella’s watch, McLaren has made high-profile signings.  head of chassis David Sanchez was hired, while long-serving Red Bull chief engineering officer Rob Marshall will officially start work in Woking on 1 January 2024 as the engineering and design boss.

Next year’s car will also be the first to gain input from the team’s new on-site wind tunnel, which will avoid renting and freighting test items to the Toyota facility in Cologne.

These steps to improve McLaren’s performance will be key in convincing Norris to sign a new contract, with the Briton’s current paperwork due to expire at the end of 2025.

The driver added: “I'm very excited… We have some new hirings… I'm excited because we're finally on the right track and we know which direction to push.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aero-restructure-main-enabler-of-mclaren-f1-2023-turnaround-stella/10556237/
DATE: 2023

Stella took over last winter to replace Andreas Seidl, who departed to head up Audi's 2026 entry with Sauber.

One of his biggest early decisions was to restructure the technical departments, creating three clear pillars with their own responsibilities.

While two of the three technical directors are still on gardening leave after signing from rival teams, Stella thinks the new structure has empowered the technical talent at the team and created "clarity on the responsibilities".

He singled out the rejigged aero department led by Peter Prodromou as an "essential" move that allowed McLaren to unleash a barrage of mid-season upgrades that turned its 2023 season around as it beat Aston Martin to fourth in the constructors' standings.

"The technical restructuring was a fundamental enabler," Stella said when asked by Motorsport.com how much of McLaren's progress would have been possible without it.

"The restructuring itself includes people that actually haven't started yet.

"If we talk about the new technical configuration, which includes three technical directors, two of them haven't started yet. It was Peter Prodromou in charge of aero, David Sanchez in charge of performance and concepts, Rob Marshall in charge of engineering and design.

"Effectively, this structure has given clarity on the responsibilities and has allowed also - and it was essential in the short term - to restructure the aerodynamic department, putting Peter Prodromou in charge, supporting Giuseppe Pesce, these guys have been absolutely instrumental in setting the new direction for the design of the car from an aerodynamic point of view."

Photo by: Steven Tee /

Andrea Stella, Team Principal, McLaren

Both Marshall, who joins from Red Bull, and Ferrari signing David Sanchez will join the team in January after their gardening leave finishes, as part of over a dozen technical hires that McLaren has made to bolster its ranks.

But Stella is key to stress that the nine podiums Lando Norris and Oscar Piastri scored in the second half of the year, as well as rookie Piastri's sprint win in Qatar, are the result of the people who were already in place at Woking.

Similarly, its new wind tunnel, which came online in the summer, has only been used on the 2024 car project.

"This has been the enabler to use the talent that was already available at McLaren, because the people that physically design the geometries are the same people," he explained.

"But unleashing their talent by giving clear direction, making clear objectives, and also trying to make sure that empowerment and enthusiasm are the foundation of how we deal with people. This has been instrumental. And that's also how we are trying to get into the future."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mclaren-f1-team-ready-to-help-norris-stop-being-so-harsh-on-himself/10555387/
DATE: 2023

. This followed a slide in Abu Dhabi that denied him the chance to nick pole off . The Briton was similarly self-critical of his one-lap performances in Austin and Mexico City.

This has led  to consider ways to support Norris, such as replicating the “entourage” given to help tennis players or letting Norris target consistency rather than perfection.

Asked by Motorsport.com whether McLaren should intervene to help Norris kerb any mistakes, team principal Andrea Stella said: “It's about how you judge situations, it's about how you talk about situations, about how you interpret yourself. This one certainly deserves some attention.

“How can we just sometimes accept that a 99.9% lap is good enough? What are you up against? Always the 100% or consistency?

“When you look into opportunities with drivers, with the athletes at this level, you do it as a group. You do it 360 degrees around the driver.

“You can see in tennis, these players, they have an entourage around them, which is to support this incredible performance to actually deliver to the best of their potential.”

Photo by: Steven Tee /

Lando Norris, McLaren

Amid the driver errors, McLaren is working to assess whether major in-season upgrades that turned the MCL60 into a car capable of challenging Red Bull have also introduced tricky handling traits.

But Stella added that Norris was nevertheless “very harsh on himself”. He continued: “Certainly, even the way he addresses his own performance I think deserves attention because he just seems very harsh on himself.

“Sometimes we need to focus on the positives. There's quite a lot of positives and we need to make sure that we look into that, and we make the negatives in a way be functional to perform, not simply to punish yourself.”

It was also put to Stella that the impressive rookie campaign from  had increased the pressure on Norris to lead to mistakes.

Addressing the team-mate relationship, the Italian said: “Because you have a competitive team-mate, you can see how you can go quicker in some places.

“We need to make sure that we support our drivers, extract their potential, which is something that is just continuous improvement.

“You do have to use all the information, including looking at trends during qualifying, like what happens when at the point we make a mistake, under which circumstances did we do that?

“Is there something that can be improved technically, but is there something that can be improved from the human side?

“So definitely we know that when the team-mate is strong, the second element [errors] tends to be more prevalent. So, something definitely to think about.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-las-vegas-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp1/1123648/
DATE: 2024

And with that, it is time to head off for a break. We'll be back at 5:45am GMT ahead of FP2 but for now, here is the full session report from the first outing of the weekend. As ever, thanks for your company!

Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes F1 W15

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

It should be noted, even Hamilton's session best time was roughly three seconds off the pole lap of 12 months ago, highlighting the evolution that is yet to come in the following sessions.

By the time FP1 came to a close, both the air and track temperatures had dropped by three degrees. This fall is expected to continue into FP2, which takes place at a similar time to both qualifying and the race.

"That was the first session we've had since Toto Wolff's comments on Hamilton's "shelf-life" emerged - the Mercedes boss has since moved to explain what he meant - but for the seven-time world champion that was a response that will have had him smiling under his helmet, while his face flashed up the Vegas night as it shone from the Sphere"

"I know it was only first practice, but that was another unimpressive run for Sergio Perez. His best time is only good enough for 10th place on the time sheets. Time is running out for him to prove he deserves to retain his seat at Red Bull next year. The other aspect is that Red Bull need him to start delivering points if they are to claw back their way into contention to win the constructors' championship."

Completing practice starts on the grid, Verstappen has massively overshot the grid box. Were that to happen in the race, he would be in hot water for that one.

Hamilton's final lap was 0.396s up on Russell. He has 0.953s over Norris in third and all other drivers are over a second back.

And Hamilton moves to the top with a 1m35.001s. With no one else on a hot lap, he will exit the car as the fastest man in the session.

Hamilton is into the final sector of his final effort, as he goes purple in sector one.

The chequered flag flies and Sainz is the first driver to take it.

"So far, so good for the new FIA race director, Rui Marques. Not major incidents like we saw last year so he has been able to easy himself into the big seat left vacant by Niels Wittich, who left the role after the Sao Paulo Grand Prix. We have Toto Wolff in the press conference later, so it will be good to get his thoughts on the shock departure and what he makes of Marques."

Hamilton goes top, but Russell is faster still with a third consecutive flying lap, moving to a 1m35.397s.

And we're about to see what Hamilton can do with soft, as he begins his first timed effort on the compound.

As the click ticks below five minutes, Russell returns Mercedes to the top with a 1m35.619s.

"It is another cold one in Vegas tonight, as soon as the sun disappears the temperature really does drop. While the FP1 action might not set pulses racing, race organisers will be happy to come through unscathed after last year. The fans who have come out for the first running are also making the most of it...maybe just to warm up!"

We're seeing a decent number of drivers in the pits now, we're probably going to see some warm tyres bolted on for a round of closing flying laps to end the session.

Hamilton is the only driver not to have tried soft tyres yet in this session.

10 minutes remain in FP1.

Up from 14th to sixth for Verstappen, but he remains 0.807s off the pace of Norris.

Verstappen reports a "connection issue" with his steering wheel, complaining that the radio "went on by itself". A peculiar problem, for sure.

McLaren has shown its hand for the first time this weekend, with Norris the first driver below 96s, putting in a 1m35.954s, as team-mate Piastri improves to fourth, sandwiching the Ferrari drivers.

Hamilton and Russell are out again but on medium tyres.

But he's immediately forced back by Ferrari team-mate Sainz who hammers in a 1m36.218s.

The first change at the top for a while, as Leclerc now puts in a 1m36.430s to better Hamilton by 0.497s.

And we've had confirmation of a five-place grid penalty for Bottas, after the Sauber driver has had a fourth energy store fitted to his car.

Yellow flags were briefly displayed again there - no explanation why quite yet.

On softs, Leclerc puts in a purple middle and personal bests in the other two sectors to move up to second, behind only Hamilton.

Magnussen is on it once again, moving up to third for Haas. This is the freedom of a driver knowing they aren't driving for their future.

"We have a voice but we don't have a vote," McLaren Racing CEO tells Sky Sports on the changing of the F1 race director. He hopes the move is a "step forward".

On the plus side, no drain issues to this point!

From 10th to third for Norris. The times have largely stabilised for the moment, but with another round of fresh rubber, the picture could all change very quickly.

Highlighting the pit entry issue, Albon has now been shown the same black and white flag as his Williams team-mate for crossing the white line.

"The pit entry line is almost impossible to see," reports Russell. With all the lines of the road, it is hugely difficult to pick out.

As per Chandhok's suggestion, a thick yellow line would clear up any confusion there.

An odd problem for Piastri here, as his McLaren refuses to switch off as his mechanics push the car back into the garage. It's eventually fixed, but as per the roll hoop lights, it was an electrical issue.

Currently, Mercedes enjoy a 1-2 led by Hamilton, with Leclerc leading a Ferrari 3-4. Championship players Norris and Verstappen are 10th and 9th respectively.

While the track is never going to fall completely silent during a session this weekend, half the grid have returned to the pits, resulting in a quieter track.

The first black and white flag of the weekend goes to Colapinto. Currently in 18th, he failed to follow the race director's event notes and crossed the white line on pit entry.

Proving how difficult the conditions are, Verstappen runs deep at the end of The Strip following a heavy lock up - his Red Bull screaming as it slid past the cameras.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-race-1123853/1123854/
DATE: 2024

and  will launch from the front row of the grid in Abu Dhabi as  looks to seal a first constructors' title since 1998.

, who secured McLaren's latest crown of any description with his maiden 2008 drivers' title, makes his final bow for  before his switch to , while , , ,  and  all start in F1 for potentially the last time.

The race gets under way at 13:00 GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-bahrain-pre-season-test-day-1-1121307/1121308/
DATE: 2024

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB20

Photo by: Steven Tee / Motorsport Images

Mercedes F1 W15 last flap

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

C3? We can see a few more than that! Mercedes opted for 25 sets of the medium tyre compound for the Bahrain test, more than any other team, having decided to take only two sets each of the C1 and C2. As the Bahrain track surface is so rough, the C3 will serve as next weekend's softest compound - so the team has already got an eye on the season opener.

Photo by: Jake Boxall-Legge

Spot the inlets either side of the top of Verstappen's helmet. Red Bull's design department certainly wasn't relaxing over the winter.

Red Bull Racing RB20 detail

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

A beautiful tribute. 🧡Lando is sporting our late friend Gil de Ferran’s helmet, a beloved member of the McLaren family who worked closely with Lando and all of the team.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mclaren-explains-the-development-discipline-behind-its-f1-world-title/10685549/
DATE: 2024

Avoiding the pitfalls of Formula 1's ground-effect machinery helped  cap a staggering 18-month development curve in 2024 with its first F1 constructors' title for 26 years. McLaren started 2023 on the back foot, but promised a large upgrade that would revamp its first season under team principal Andrea Stella. That duly arrived in Austria, turning  and  into podium contenders.

Intriguingly enough, the exact same scenario took place in 2024. But this time around, McLaren's base performance was a lot higher and so was its eventual ceiling.

From a humble midfield start, a major update in May's Miami Grand Prix immediately yielded Norris a maiden win. In Hungary Piastri became a winner too and while Norris' title bid against  came up short, the pair delivered enough to edge McLaren ahead of  and Red Bull by the end of the year.

Speaking exclusively to Motorsport.com, technical director of engineering Neil Houldey explains the approach McLaren has taken to get there, with its Miami floor just one piece of an elaborate puzzle that paid dividends.

"I think it's fair to say that the floor was the largest performance item of that package, but it was a proportion," said Houldey, one of McLaren's three technical directors in a structure introduced by Stella during the 2023 season.

"We certainly wouldn't have made the step without all of the package together. I would say there was no conscious decision at all to choose Miami, it's about harvesting the aero results when we think they're ready to be put on the car, and that they offer the right amount of performance, and that we're confident in that level of performance.

McLaren was immediately quick in Miami when floor upgrade arrived, helping Norris to end his win drought

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

"And it just happened that all the ideas and all the performance materialised at a very similar stage, and therefore it became a huge package as opposed to a number of in effect smaller packages that worked independently.

"They just came at the same time, which was nice in a way because it showed everyone what we were capable of. The sum of it was really a change in the trajectory of our season."

Not only did the Miami specification deliver a spectacular performance boost, McLaren was also the only big team to avoid getting in trouble by introducing undesirable handling effects by taking a wrong turn in the development of this generation of car's crucial floors.

Red Bull went down the wrong path, making its car harder to balance without adding significant performance, while  has spent its entire season wondering why its car had such a narrow operating window.

Crucially for McLaren, Ferrari lost months of development by finding its Barcelona floor induced bouncing in high-speed corners, which may well have made the difference in the world championship fight. So, how did McLaren manage to stay clear of any downgrades and avoid those pitfalls where its rivals didn't?

"I can't answer for any other team and I'm sure there are many different reasons why different teams have been taking parts off, putting parts back on again," Houldey said.

"The Miami floor was relatively easy, actually. It had so much performance, it was going to be better in every part of the corner, and there was no concern. It may have caused a little bit more bouncing, it might not, but these were going to be small effects with total lap time.

"The harder one for us was  where actually the performance wasn't as high, but we'd been so diligent in ensuring that in every trajectory, every part of the corner, it was still better, that we were still confident that it was going to go onto the car and offer us some lap time.

McLaren reaped rewards from being patient and ensuring that all its upgrades would improve the car before being introduced

Photo by: Lubomir Asenov / Motorsport Images

"And I think that's in part because of the way that we have good toolsets, that the CFD and the wind tunnel all give very similar results."

But McLaren has also made sure to remain extremely patient at adding upgrades to the car, rather than being tempted by its sudden title tilt to fast-track upgrades that may not have been fully vetted.

"It's not about 'you must hit this deadline for this race'," explained Houldey. "There's an internal pressure to create performance, of course, but not a real deadline.

"That means people can develop it without the concern that what they're going to end up with on the car might not be as expected. We weren't compromising in any area of the performance of that floor when we put it on.

"If you do something potentially a little bit too early, because it's what you have to do to get something on the car, you might not be getting the results that you quite expected. Fortunately for us, from Miami onwards, we were still getting the results.

"There definitely wasn't any sort of panic in the team that we had to get an upgrade out. It was 'we'll get the upgrade out when we're ready to get the upgrade out', and we were confident in it delivering on the circuit.

"Because, as you can imagine, you do it any earlier, and you find yourself in a situation where you put it on, you take it off, you put it on, you take it off, you lose so much more than just keeping the old parts on the car from the start."

Seeing other teams struggle with exactly the scenario Houldey describes further reinforced that McLaren was taking the right approach, and it will stick to its guns in 2025 too as the current regulations cycle comes to an end.

McLaren has no reason to deviate away from its disciplined approach in 2025

Photo by: Andy Hone / Motorsport Images

"We saw what other teams were doing and learned a little bit from that, but actually it's more the philosophy of McLaren in ensuring that we're doing the right things for the right reason, putting our performance on the car at the right time," he added.

"I'd like to think we'd have done exactly the same thing anyway, but seeing other teams struggle does make you consider that it's not always easy.

"We know that we need to continue to recognise that. It's not like McLaren has done two upgrades and hasn't taken any off that that means that in the future, we're not going to be in that same situation.

"So, we're very aware that we've still got a lot to learn, and producing any upgrades for 2025 is going to be a very, very similar situation. We need to make sure that they're always positive and there isn't the risk of a downgrade."

Watch: Ranking Autosport's Top 50 Drivers of 2024 - 10 to 1

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/how-mclaren-faced-up-to-the-misinformation-noise-and-distractions-of-being-an-f1-title-challenger/10684680/
DATE: 2024

Delivering success in Formula 1 is not just about producing the fastest car, even though that is a critical part of it.

Instead, to win – and more especially to keep winning again and again and again – involves strong leadership, plotting your way out of difficulties, dealing with internal and external politics, and then batting away a few grenades lobbed by other teams along the way.

As  boss Andrea Stella reflects on a remarkable 2024 campaign where his squad ended its 26-year wait for the constructors’ championship, he admits that there were some extreme challenges that went beyond just making sure its MCL38 was as quick as it could be.

Added to this all was an element of it needing to learn on the fly, because it was almost overnight that it went from the hunter to the hunted when its Miami upgrade thrust it to the front of the field.

Watch: Ranking Autosport's Top 50 Drivers of 2024 - 50 to 41

Speaking to Motorsport.com about what 2024 had thrown up, Stella said: “We needed to adapt somehow to the fact that the trajectory of the team was almost faster than our natural way of adapting.

“Sometimes we needed to learn very rapidly from what happened on track. Or sometimes outside the track, related to being now a competitive team.

“I can make the example of Monza. We were P1/P2 in Monza and somehow we didn’t expect it. And if I go back to before the race now, think I would make some adaptations.

“So the performance trajectory has been somehow so fast that we had to chase a bit as a team and make the necessary adaptations.”

One of the key changes that Stella said had to be made was in ramping up communications, ensuring that the squad was clear on its objectives and how it would handle tense moments. This meant a reshuffling of timetables and how it prepared for each grand prix.

“We have adapted over the year the weekend schedule, so that we have more conversations like those where teams have to deal with if both drivers can win a race, or what do we do in case of some situations which in the past were not relevant to us. We needed to adapt and learn very fast.”

Andrea Stella, Team Principal, McLaren F1 Team

Photo by: Zak Mauger / Motorsport Images

The level of competitiveness on display in 2024, when four teams had cars capable of winning every race, also meant there was never a moment of being able to sit back and take stock.

Stella added: “This is hard because you are constantly in a position of discomfort.

“You never can be happy with what you have achieved, and you can never be happy with how you are doing things because, and we have seen this season, there were times it looked like McLaren was in a very strong trajectory, outdeveloping and outscoring everyone, and then others bounced back.

“There's the hard aspect to manage, which is you constantly have to make sure that the team is in this state of filling a gap, and raising the bar.”

Being at the front puts you under the spotlight of your rivals and the media, who probe like never before to discover the secrets of success and then get on your back when things go wrong.

And there are also times when dramas appear totally out of the blue – like when McLaren found itself at the centre of intrigue in Brazil over the water-in-tyres cooling controversy that erupted.

“What is difficult, even if you get familiar with racing at the top, is to handle the noise and the distractions that come either internally or externally,” added Stella.

“You want to keep staying focused. And, in order to do so, you do have to have a structured approach, a conscious approach towards managing the noise, managing now that you are the headline.

“And sometimes, like we have seen with the case of the water in the tyres, sometimes having to deal with misinformation, things that you know kind of don't make any sense.

“And yet they become news and they become something that you cannot ignore, so you have to deal with.

“So these are new dimensions in a way for a team that was not competing [for wins before] and they definitely proved to be requiring a lot of attention.

“Plus I would say this constant acknowledgement that it's not enough.

“It would be good to say like 'oh this is enough; it's going to be an easy win'! But it's not, so you always have to reposition and this is somehow hard to accept.”

Lando Norris, McLaren MCL38, Oscar Piastri, McLaren MCL38, George Russell, Mercedes F1 W15, Charles Leclerc, Ferrari SF-24, Carlos Sainz, Ferrari SF-24, Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes F1 W15, the rest of the field through the first chicane

Photo by: Zak Mauger / Motorsport Images

Another aspect that McLaren had to deal with, as it learned to cope with the new found pressures of being an F1 title contender, was handling the disappointments over opportunities that slipped through its fingers.

As well as left ruing points that went begging, like it leading out of the first chicane at Monza with a 1-2 but not converting that into a win, it also faced criticisms from outside over how it handled things.

This was a new experience for the squad and, while Stella admits there were times it got things wrong, equally he thinks that even the bad calls were not a disaster.

“I look at the facts.  And when I look at the facts, I can see a team that started the season in fourth position from a pecking order point of view and then I think have operated in a very solid way to gain the lead in the championship.

“I don't think you can achieve this sort of solid scoring rate if you are not robust and consistent in the way you operate and deliver.

“It is true that we have had some missed opportunities this season. Like, for instance, if we do Silverstone again, we're going to put a set of medium tyres rather than use soft on Lando's car.

"But still, when these opportunities were not capitalised, it's not like there was a breakdown, or there was like a significant consequence; we were on the podium.

“Even in Monza, going back, should we attempt the one-stop like Leclerc did? Possibly. Yet, we were second and third.

"From this point of view, to some extent, the attention that has been brought over the alleged missed opportunities of McLaren, I think has been...I think it simply wasn't very analytical.

“You put all the emphasis on you should have won this race. I put the emphasis on how robust the team has been. Yeah, we could have won the race. Yeah, but we're still second and third. I think we have seen some other oscillations by some other competitors to a much larger scale in this season.

“And also I would like to take this opportunity, as we talk about the missed opportunities, to say that the way we have approached all the missed opportunities, makes me very proud of the mindset, the culture of the team because we definitely try to attack all the opportunities as a learning.”

Zak Brown, CEO, McLaren Racing, lifts the Constructors trophy on the podium

Photo by: Lubomir Asenov / Motorsport Images

While McLaren’s season was not perfect – but perfection is almost impossible in a series as competitive as F1 – Stella thinks that it ultimately handled things as best it could.

Yet, despite coming out of the season on top, he does not see a squad that has reached its full potential.

“If anything, we are limited by capacity,” he said. “There's so much we can learn from. It's more like the capacity, the time, the resources.

“But this culture is very strong at McLaren. We always enjoy the quest, even when this offers some missed opportunities.

“I think we have always operated at the best of what we were capable of at the time. Our philosophy is that what's important is that tomorrow we're going to be better than today. And I can see this being implemented with great efforts.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/piastri-improving-qualifying-form-my-big-focus-for-f1-2025/10684150/
DATE: 2024

has revealed improving in qualifying is his main point of focus for the 2025 Formula 1 season after comparing unfavourably to  team-mate .

Piastri was outqualified 21-3 by Norris in 2024, albeit often by small margins, with Norris also getting the better of the Australian in sprint qualifying this year. That means Piastri has regressed compared to his rookie 2023 season, when he outperformed Norris on seven Saturdays despite being less experienced at that stage than he is now.

Some of that is explained by Norris having made several decisive errors in 2023 which knocked him back on the starting grid, an area the 2024 championship runner-up worked on with the team over the last off-season.

It now looks like Piastri will follow a similar process of soul searching this winter to iron out his own qualifying weaknesses that seeped into his driving over the past campaign.

"This season I feel like I made good steps forward, there is still room to go," said Piastri, who finished fourth in the 2024 standings.

"The biggest one has been leaving a few too many positions on the table in qualifying. I don't think I've ever really made life easy on myself in the races in that aspect. So that's the big focus of the off-season, trying to get those last hundredths, last tenths.

Oscar Piastri, McLaren F1 Team, Lando Norris, McLaren F1 Team

Photo by: Dom Romney / Motorsport Images

"I feel like in all the other areas, I have been able to show what I'm capable of and also show that I have improved. So again, now it is just putting everything together because the gaps now are very small, or non-existent, so if I can get it all together, then I will be on my way."

One silver lining, according to the 23-year-old, is that he has a good grasp of how he can improve his execution in qualifying rather than having to try and understand where the lap time has to come from.

When asked by Motorsport.com if he is confident he can make that next step, Piastri said: "I think so, the big thing for me is there have not been many occasions where it has been hard for me to understand where the time has gone.

"After qualifying [in Abu Dhabi, where he was two tenths down on polesitter Norris], I pretty much knew immediately where I had gone wrong. It's not a case of really needing to find that extra step, it's being able to be on top of my game every time.

"I feel like when I have been on it, I have been good enough. That's not to say there's not still room to grow on top of that, but the encouraging thing is the potential has been there. So, the next step is realising that potential every weekend. If I can do that, we are in for a fun season."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/least-helpful-f1-teammates-ever/10683176/
DATE: 2024

Finding the right #2 driver is as much art as science. Teams need someone talented enough to score podiums, and savvy enough to understand their role. Make a mistake, and your #1 driver can spend the season dragging dead weight, particularly in the fight for the constructor's title. Which brings us to Sergio Pérez (who ).

brought Pérez aboard for 2021 to complement then-wunderkind . Over that season and the next two, the Mexican driver largely held up his end of the bargain, delivering podiums and backing a dynastic run for Red Bull and Verstappen. Especially in 2022 and 2023, Sergio Pérez represented the ideal No. 2 driver — a constructor’s championship cheat code.

Where Pérez scored between 32 and 40 percent of Red Bull’s points each of his first three years with the team, he was an anchor in 2024, delivering a paltry 26.1 percent of the team’s 581 points. Red Bull slipped to third in the constructors’ standings despite Verstappen hoisting his fourth consecutive driver’s title. As Verstappen clinched his fourth world championship at the Las Vegas Grand Prix, Pérez notched a single point. The man who'd been a bear as a #2 driver had become an albatross.

It all made us wonder: Where did Pérez's woeful season stack up in the annals of bad campaigns by a top driver’s team-mate? So we crunched the numbers, looking at data from every Formula 1 season, to figure out out which team-mates had been the least helpful for the contending teams. Turns out, since 1958, 14 teams have finished in the top two of the constructor’s championship with one driver scoring 75 percent (or more) of the team's points.

Below are the most lopsided F1 driver tandems ever. The good news — for Checo, at least — is that there have been worse team-mates than his 2024 run. Just not by much.

Photo by: Sutton Images

Emerson Fittipaldi: 61 points (100%)David Walker and Reine Wisell: 0 points (0%)

Meet the gold standard for ineffective team-mates in Formula 1. Fittipaldi might have known he was in for a solo show when the FIA disqualified Walker from the year’s first race, the Argentine Grand Prix, for receiving outside assistance. He single-handedly dragged the team to the title when his team-mates had extremely trouble staying eligible for races, let alone finishing them with their cars intact.

In a season with only 12 races, Fittipaldi won five and claimed the constructors’ championship all by himself. Walker was the primary freeloader, never finishing better than ninth and retiring in each of his last four starts. Wisell replaced him in the midst of that run of ignominy and couldn’t score points for Lotus, either.

Jim Clark in his Lotus 25 Climax

Photo by: Motorsport Images

Jim Clark: 54 points (98.2%)Rest of team: 1 point (1.8%)

The 1963 season saw the first of Clark’s two driver’s championships, winning seven of 10 grands prix (while also taking seven poles). And for constructor’s championship purposes, he was the only driver that mattered, as the team turned into a carousel of #2 pilots: fellow Brits Trevor Taylor, Peter Arundell, and Mike Spence, as well as Mexican Pedro Rodríguez. Taylor scored exactly one point thanks to a sparkling sixth-place finish in Monaco to open the season. Of course, the FIA only counted a team’s top driver in a grand prix toward the constructor standings in 1963, so even Taylor’s single point wound up being irrelevant.

Ukyo Katayama, Michael Schumacher and Jos Verstappen in a press conference

Photo by: Ercole Colombo

Michael Schumacher: 92 points (89.3%)Jos Verstappen, JJ Lehto, and Johnny Herbert: 11 points (10.7%)

In lugging around a subpar team-mate this season at Red Bull, Max Verstappen is perhaps paying a debt taken on by his father 30 years ago. That season,  spent most of the year as the team’s No. 2 to a young Schumacher — though that wasn’t the original plan. JJ Lehto was meant to be Schumacher’s partner, but a preseason injury resulted in Verstappen taking the seat.

Things went well for : he won his first world driver’s championship, beating out  by a single point after both men retired from the season-ending Australian Grand Prix following a crash with each other. (Schumacher, who had everything to gain by crashing out with Hill, has often been accused of orchestrating the collision.)

It all went less well for Verstappen the Elder, and . The team finished 15 points behind  for second in the constructor’s title. Jos Verstappen wasn’t around to see it happen; Benetton replaced him with Johnny Herbert for the final two races in the hopes of making a final push. Verstappen lost his seat before the next season began.

Michael Andretti and Ayrton Senna

Photo by: Ercole Colombo

Ayrton Senna: 73 points (86.9%)Michael Andretti and Mika Häkkinen: 11 points (13.1%)

finished second in the world championship in this season, 26 points behind Alain Prost. McLaren also came in second to Prost’s Williams team, but the margin in that race was much bigger: 168 points for Williams, 84 for McLaren.  brought little to the table, finishing 11th in the championship, with as many retirements (seven) as points. McLaren swapped him out for  for the final three races, with the Finn sandwiching a P3 finish at the Japanese Grand Prix between two retirements. Andretti never drove again in Formula 1, leaving his lousy ‘93 performance opposite Senna to stand as the American’s only F1 record.

Damon Hill and Ayrton Senna

Photo by: Motorsport Images

Damon Hill: 91 points (77.1%)Rest of team: 27 points (22.9%)

This season, of course, wears an asterisk of tragic proportions.

Williams started the season with a dynamite duo: three-time champion Ayrton Senna and an ascendant  (who would win his first title two years later in 1996). Senna’s death in the season’s third race, at the San Marino Grand Prix at Imola, threw the world into mourning, and  into chaos.

Amidst the pall of Senna’s loss, Damon Hill found himself in a historic title battle with Michael Schumacher, losing out by only one point. Maybe more impressively, Williams secured an astonishing constructors’ title thanks almost entirely to Hill.  and Nigel Mansell took their turns filling Senna’s seat, and the two drivers cobbled together a combined 27 points, finishing eighth and ninth respectively in the championship. A bar-bet fact: Mansell, sitting on pole at the finale in Australia, won the race in which Hill and Schumacher crashed out. He called his victory that day “a great relief,” as he continued a stretch of winning at least one race in each year since 1985.

Jenson Button and Takuma Sato pose with BAR-Honda team members

Photo by: Motorsport Images

: 85 points (71.4%)Takuma Sato: 34 points (28.6%)

This duo has the honor of being the most lopsided on a top-two constructor in the 21st century. Button didn’t win a grand prix, but stood on nine podiums; Sato landed just one, a P3 in the United States Grand Prix at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. That was apparently a formative experience for the Japanese star, who later changed racing series and won the Indianapolis 500 in both 2017 and 2020.

Photo by: Michael Potts / Motorsport Images

Max Verstappen: 429 points (73.8%)Sergio Pérez: 152 points (26.2%)

Technically, Pérez's 2024 season doesn't count for our worst-team-mate rankings because Red Bull finished third (not second) in the constructor's championship, behind  and . But let's not let rules get in the way of recognizing his futility. Despite a torrid start to the season — four podiums in the first five races — Perez collapsed soon therafter, logging five DNFs (and no podiums) in the final 17 grand prix, including the last two races. The Mexican driver’s eighth-place finish in the drivers’ standings this year was the widest gap between a No. 2 driver and his title-winning team-mate since Jos Verstappen took 10th behind Schumacher in 1994.

But if Pérez’s brutal season, in which he managed only 26.2% of his team’s point, is technically inadmissible, his 2021 season with Red Bull can be entered into evidence. As Verstappen won the drivers’ title in Abu Dhabi and  retained the team crown, Pérez managed just 32.5 percent of Red Bull’s points. Oh, what Christian Horner would’ve given to get that much out of Pérez this year.

McLaren team-mates Alain Prost and Niki Lauda

Photo by: Sutton Images

Niki Lauda: 72 points (50.2%)Alain Prost: 71.5 points (49.8%)

Let’s end this list on a somewhat positive note.

In 1984, the world witnessed what may be the most even-handed effort by two Formula 1 team-mates ever, as  and Alain Prost won the constructor's title with only a half-point separating their totals.

That half-point, of course, made a difference in Prost’s season. Lauda took the driver’s title over Prost largely because of the Frenchman's own actions. During the Monaco Grand Prix, as rain poured down and a charging Ayrton Senna threatened to overtake the race-leading Prost, the Frenchman pressed for the race to be shortened. He got his wish, but only half points (4.5 for Prost, instead of nine) were awarded to the top six finishers. Had he finished the full race in second, Prost would have received six points.

Since 1984, a couple teams have come close to splitting constructor’s points while taking the title. In 1986, Williams tallied 70 points from Nigel Mansell and 69 from Nelson Piquet for the championship. And in 2016,  won with 385 from  and 380 from .

No team has ever finished in the top two of the constructor standings with a perfect 50/50 driver point split. It may not even be a worthwhile goal to have two viable #1 drivers (as McLaren may soon discover). But Red Bull will certainly be hoping for a more balanced duo than it could muster in 2024.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-qatar-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1123762/
DATE: 2024

After handing victory in the Formula 1 Qatar Grand Prix sprint race to  team-mate  on the final lap,  has another shot at glory in qualifying.

Having repaid Piastri for his own sacrificial gesture in the Brazilian GP sprint, Norris will aim to underline his position as the faster of the papaya drivers by emulating the pace that enabled him to pip  to top spot in sprint qualifying on Friday.

But with Russell keen to strike back at McLaren after being frustrated by Piastri's defence in the sprint, the Las Vegas winner cannot be ruled out of the conversation for the penultimate pole position of the year.

Qualifying gets under way in Losail at 18:00 GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/the-unspoken-major-factor-behind-mclarens-2024-f1-title-win/10681483/
DATE: 2024

“Wow” – was initially all  team boss Andrea Stella could muster when Motorsport.com raised the subject of his squad’s bulletproof reliability in Formula 1 2024 ahead of the Abu Dhabi finale.

A discipline as scientific as motorsport does not really leave room for superstition, but the timing of our discussion was complex and so Stella’s brief incredulity was understandable. To be clear, Andrea, we weren’t trying to curse you…

Last Saturday, with McLaren having secured the front two spots on the grid for the race eventually won by  – and with constructors’ championship rival  having one of its cars starting down in 19th thanks to ’s various misfortunes in the Abu Dhabi event’s opening two days – the papaya team was heavy favourite to wrap up this year’s teams’ prize.

Stella was right to be wary. Not only had McLaren seen Norris slip from a possibly winning position to nowhere in Qatar a week earlier due to the Briton’s main race double yellow flag gaffe, but the subsequent Yas Marina Turn 1 contact between  in the other MCL38 and  highlighted how precarious its position remained until the race ended.

Indeed, with Leclerc rising from 19th to eighth on the chaotic opening lap, if Norris fell behind chaser  in the lead Ferrari over the rest of the event, the 14-point swing would have been enough for the Scuderia to steal the constructors’ title.

Also at play was how, at this stage, Piastri’s recovery to a point with 10th was not a given.

But in getting to the finish as its drivers did, McLaren capped its first F1 teams’ title in 26 years with a remarkable record in one critical area.

Oscar Piastri, McLaren MCL38

Photo by: Zak Mauger / Motorsport Images

This was how, of all the front-running four teams, it did not have a single reliability drama that cost it points in 2024.

At Red Bull, Verstappen retired in Australia with his brake fire and lost a likely Spa win due to his engine energy recovery system issue back in Montreal practice, meaning he had to suffer a grid penalty.

Also in Canada, Ferrari lost Leclerc to a power unit problem, while at  engine drama forced DNFs for  in Australia and  at Silverstone.

Indeed, McLaren only failed to score points on two occasions this year – when Piastri was in the wars with Sainz in Miami and when Norris came off far worse from that crash with Verstappen in Austria.

Technically, as he stopped in the pits seven laps from the finish, Norris was classified at the Red Bull Ring – ultimately ensuring a zero DNF record for the constructors’ champion in a year where Piastri followed  in 2002, Lewis Hamilton in 2019 and Max Verstappen last year in completing every single racing lap.

Norris barely squeaked over the 90% race distance threshold required to be classified in Austria, as he had completed 90.1% of the event when he stopped with his MCL38 too damaged to continue after the contact with Verstappen on lap 64.

Stella did – charmingly and in-depth as ever – ultimately respond to our enquiry on just how McLaren had maintained such excellent reliability in 2024.

Lando Norris, McLaren MCL38

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

His answer recalled his previous career experience working as a performance and race engineer at Ferrari, which raised the standard on F1 reliability during its run of five world title doubles with Schumacher during this period in the early 2000s.

“We are in the position we are in terms of the constructor championship, not only because we have been able to realise a car that, on average, was competitive in most circuits, we have [also] had the drivers that have used this car, often, to the best of its potential,” Stella said.

“But definitely from an operational point of view and a reliability point of view the team so far have been able to achieve standards that in my career in Formula 1, they make me think of my early 2000s years at Ferrari, where reliability was kind of a religion and the standards were very high.

“In every Formula 1 team, you don't achieve these results in an unstructured way.

“This is the result of having invested in this area – operations and reliability – invested money, invested [in] people, [and] changed the organisation in relation to how we deal with the reliability and also the culture.

“With this question, you give me the possibility to make an appraisal of the work and the quality of the work that has happened in this area.

“But what I say when I talk about reliability in our team debrief is that I think it's the worst job in Formula 1.

“Because you are always as good as yesterday. There's no credit accumulated – because every new session, every new race, can offer a situation, a problem.

“So, the only thing you can do is just stay super focused, super proactive, and see where the next problem will be coming from.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-las-vegas-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp3/1123670/
DATE: 2024

With that, we'll take a breather for a coffee break before firing up all over again for qualifying which starts at 6am GMT. Until then, go well!

George Russell, Mercedes F1 W15

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

What did we learn from that session ahead of qualifying? Well, Mercedes still appears strong and the track conditions will ramp up with every lap, so it could be a case of the last to set a lap time may triumph.

Oscar Piastri, McLaren MCL38

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar / Motorsport Images

So, a flurry of very late action to round out FP3 topped by Russell from Piastri, Sainz, Norris, Verstappen and Hamilton.

Anyway, the other 18 drivers minus Perez and Stroll do get to enjoy an out-lap, lap to the grid for a practice start and then an in-lap. Not much to learn, but it still sees the RBs almost collide as Tsunoda gets his braking wrong and nearly goes into the rear of Lawson.

Perez misses the opportunity to get out on track at the back of the car train, so he has to park at the end of the pitlane facing the red light. He's the only one to miss out and it was an odd one given he left a big gap to Russell ahead. He could've made it.

Stroll has come to a stop just outside the Venetian, as the car's red lights turn off so the marshals can recover the Aston Martin. The session will resume - for exactly 60 seconds to be precise.

Stroll's car totally switched off before he came to a halt and the red lights are flashing on his Aston Martin to indicate it isn't safe to touch yet. That could mean the session is effectively over with three minutes to go.

Not for long though, as a red flag is shown with Stroll parked at the side of the track with his Aston Martin smoking.

But just like that Verstappen is suddenly shuffled down to fifth as Russell goes fastest from Piastri, Sainz and Norris. The lap times keep on coming.

"The grip felt miles better," Verstappen reports on team radio. It certainly seems Red Bull has dialled in that car over the last hour.

Verstappen goes fastest of anyone with a 1m34.137s - 0.081s up on Russell. Problems, what problems?

Perez only manages 11th and 1.4s off the outright pace. Where does Verstappen stack up?

Verstappen has bailed out of his first push lap on the softs as Perez carries on. At the front, Russell takes over top spot again with a 1m34.218s.

Aaaaand there they are. Right on cue, Verstappen and Perez come out in formation and both on fresh soft tyres. Let's see what they've got ahead of qualifying.

There are 15 minutes left in FP3 but still no sign of the Red Bull drivers who haven't ventured out on the soft tyres yet.

After seeing so many empty seats for practice two, it is encouraging to see more spectators here for FP3. After asking around, it seems the locals are not bothered about practice, unlike some of the more-established markets. Organisers say they expect a full house on Saturday, so that's where their focus is. It does make it valid to suggest that perhaps, in order to increase ticket sales, Vegas should be selected as a location for the sprint races. At least it would get the punters in.

Russell briefly takes top spot only for his team-mate Hamilton to reply with a 1m34.341s - once again it is looking promising for Mercedes in these cold and slippery conditions. Can it last until the sessions that really matter?

A switch to Hamilton's onboard camera shows he is pushing on the softs, as he goes fastest overall with a 1m34.565s.

Plenty of lap time improvements elsewhere, as Magnussen goes fastest with a 1m34.883s for Haas.

"This is... I can't drive it. I'm gonna crash. My left front is completely f******," Verstappen says, stating his case to pit. Red Bull duly obliges and calls in its driver.

"It's only getting worse. The car is undriveable," Verstappen reports on team radio. "Just a couple more laps please Max. Have to try and make the best of this," Lambiase replies to his driver. That came after a lock-up at Turn 5.

All 20 drivers are on track so suddenly there is a fair bit of traffic to navigate. Hamilton gets caught behind Alonso and then Tsunoda to restrict his opening time lap to 1m36.590s.

Norris and then Piastri take over at the top, the Australian posting a 1m35.759s for top spot in the McLaren 1-2.

Tsunoda blows that theory away with a 1m37.517s to go three seconds quicker than Verstappen. A high number of drivers are on out-laps now so this track will ramp up rapidly over the final 34 minutes.

Norris posts a 1m41.653s to slot into third behind both Red Bulls. Another warm-up lap or is the track really this much slower? Verstappen improves to go top but only with a 1m40.588s.

Norris has come out to be our yardstick, running on the soft tyres, as Perez and Verstappen both improve by a handful of tenths on their next laps.

Verstappen's opening effort is a leisurely 1m42.180s on the medium tyres. It seems hard to believe track conditions mean nine seconds slower than FP2, but let's see what others can produce before drawing conclusions.

Verstappen has had enough of the hanging around in the pits and nips out for the first time in the session, joined by team-mate Perez. Given all the trouble-free running yesterday - just the one short red flag caused by Albon stoppage in FP2 - it perhaps isn't surprising there isn't much track action early in FP3.

The hard tyre scrubbing continues for a handful of drivers, meaning it is just Tsunoda on track at present. And still just the one lap time overall which came from Perez earlier.

It may only be a practice session but Red Bull and Max Verstappen, in particular, will be keen to show improvement on their performance yesterday. We know the wing is an issue but with everything else now turned up to qualifying spec, let’s see where they actually sit in terms of pace.

Lawson, who has also joined the fun scrubbing in his hard tyres, says it is very slippery on track. The circuit reopened for public traffic between FP2 and this session, so it will be a case of rebuilding the grip levels and cleaning the racing line.

"Ah. Miles off," Perez says over team radio after his first timed lap of 1m41.941s. Given FP2's top times were in the 1m33s, he's made an accurate summation.

Both Aston Martins are also in action early while the rest stay comfortable and warm in the garages. Handy, as it is 14.9C air temperature and given the timing of the sessions that is the warmest it'll be all night.

Zhou nips out for an early exploration of the Las Vegas Strip, taking in the sights during his installation lap. He's joined by Perez and Hamilton, with the Red Bull driver sporting a visibly trimmed rear wing - it looks like someone's taken a bite out of it.

Off we go for final practice!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

While at Red Bull there is concern over its rear wing being unsuited to the demands of the Las Vegas track ,but that they are stuck with it for the weekend. .

Norris took second in FP2, just 0.011s off Hamilton, but . However, digging a little deeper, those concerns aren't strictly showing in the data - .

Lando Norris, McLaren MCL38

Photo by: Zak Mauger / Motorsport Images

The nightmare of manhole covers coming loose and delayed running were a distant memory, as the opening day of track action was a relatively straightforward and low key affair. Hamilton topped both FP1 and FP2 with Mercedes starting strongly in Vegas with Russell second in FP1 and third in FP2 too - .
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mclaren-reveals-brave-risk-approach-to-2025-f1-car-design/10681194/
DATE: 2024

has revealed that it is taking some ‘brave risks’ with its 2025 car design, as it sets its sights on a Formula 1 title double.

The Woking-based team has just ended a 26-year wait for the constructors’ championship, with  and  helping it secure the crown at last weekend’s Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.

However, after seeing Norris beaten to the drivers’ crown by , the focus is clearly on going one better on that front next season.

Off the back of a year that far exceeded its initial expectations, McLaren CEO Zak Brown has explained that the approach to 2025 will be completely different  – both in terms of its ambition and its mindset.

Speaking exclusively to Motorsport.com, Brown said that the team was not complacent about the pace of its current car and had elected to push the boundaries next year in chasing some ambitious design ideas.

“We're going into next year at full strength,” said Brown.

“I think we're in a different mindset now in terms of the confidence of the team and the amount of bravery that the team is prepared to take in the development in next year's car.

“The team is not: 'let's just tweak a little here and there. The car is pretty good.' We've got some stuff on next year's car that is like ‘brave risk’.

“I think you only get to the front if you try and beat everyone, as opposed to the mindset when we started this year which was like ‘let’s just be as good as them.' The mind shift is now: ‘let's beat everyone'."

Zak Brown, CEO, McLaren Racing, the McLaren team celebrate after securing the Constructors Championship title

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar / Motorsport Images

Brown explained that McLaren knows it must be on the front foot in 2025 if it is stave off the threat of Red Bull,  and with all four squads having won races in the closing stages of the campaign.

“We’ve got to out-develop them, out-drive them, and out-strategise them - as opposed to this mindset of, ‘just don't make any mistakes.' That's just not competitive enough.

“Commercially we are now super strong, and we’ve got two great drivers. That's a huge strength.

“But damn the competition is good. Mercedes is right there, and the Ferraris and Red Bulls too, right?

“Just as you kind of feel like they're starting to slide a bit, they smash it. So I think you have got four teams next year, and any of them could be winning both championships.”

Off the back of a year where McLaren had to learn to win again, and admits to letting some opportunities slip through its fingers, Brown says the squad has gained a lot of confidence through everything it has been through.

“I think we'll be much more prepared next year, because I think we came into this year thinking not in a million years are we going to be where we are,” he said.

“We were almost even mentally not prepared. We weren't unprepared, but we just didn't go in with this mindset that we have right now.

“I think we'll go into next year knowing how damn hard it's going to be, but wanting to win the drivers’ and constructors’ world championships.

“This year it was, ‘let's be top three and see if we can get Lando his first win.’ We've moved on from that. Now it's we've got two drivers that can compete for the world championship, and let's go for both.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/lando-norris-shortlisted-for-sports-personality-of-the-year-after-f1-championship-win/10784141/
DATE: 2025

driver  has been shortlisted for the 2025 BBC Sports Personality of the Year award after clinching his first Formula 1 world drivers' championship title.

The Briton has been shortlisted alongside five other sportspeople - England footballers Hannah Hampton and Chloe Kelly, rugby union player Ellie Kildunne, darts player Luke Littler and golfer Rory McIlroy.

Alex Kay-Jelski, director of BBC Sport, : "This has been a breathtaking year for sport, driven by athletes whose performances belong in the history books. Each one has delivered moments of pure brilliance that have defined 2025.

"It's been incredible to watch, and I can't wait to honour their achievements, and to see who the nation chooses as the BBC Sports Personality of the Year 2025."

Norris finished the season-ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix in third behind race winner  and his McLaren team-mate , which was enough to take the title. The McLaren driver became the 11th British driver to claim an F1 title and the 35th driver in the history of the championship to do so.

"Oh, God. I've not cried in a while. I didn't think I would cry, but I did," he told  after the race as he held back tears. "It's a long journey. It's a long journey. First of all, I want to say a big thanks to my guys, everyone at McLaren... My parents.

"I'm not crying... My mum, my dad. They're the ones who supported me since the beginning."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

He added: "It feels amazing. I now know what Max feels like a little bit. I want to congratulate Max and Oscar, my two biggest competitors the whole season. It's been a pleasure to race against both of them. It's been an honour. I've learned a lot from both of them as well. I've enjoyed it. It's been a long year. But we did it. We did it. I'm so proud of everyone."

The 2025 BBC Sports Personality of the Year awards are set to take place on Thursday 18 December, and voting will take place during the programme.

Set to be hosted by Gabby Logan, Alex Scott and Clare Balding, the event will be broadcast live on BBC One and BBC iPlayer.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/cost-cap-prevented-arms-race-and-helped-best-team-mclaren-win-f1-title/10783889/
DATE: 2025

team principal Toto Wolff says Formula 1’s cost cap made the world championship a “meritocracy” rather than an “arms race”, after  won its first drivers’ title since 2008.

prevailed over  and McLaren team-mate  to end a 15-season streak of Red Bull and Mercedes triumphs in the world championship.

Red Bull, Mercedes and  used to be the wealthiest F1 outfits by a significant margin, but the cost cap introduced in 2021 made the championship a more level-playing field.

Mercedes struggled throughout the ground-effect era that began in 2022 and recently ended in Abu Dhabi, winning just seven of 92 grands prix over that period.

Asked whether the Silver Arrows could have recovered more ground without the cost cap, Wolff replied: “You know, we were pretty conscious when the budget cap came – not only for the commercial side of things, but also to have a more level-playing field among the teams, and not just the usual suspects that were outspending each other.

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / LAT Images via Getty Images

“So, would we have been able to buy ourselves out? Look at Red Bull or Ferrari, they have the same financial opportunities or possibilities that we have. So, it would have again ended up in an arms race. And maybe it wouldn't have been McLaren fighting there with us on top.

“This is just a meritocracy. Best man in best machine wins. And it wasn't us.”

McLaren’s Norris has a similar outlook on the situation, claiming the Woking-based squad outdeveloped its rivals “by a long way” – though Red Bull eventually made up most of its deficit.

“Another constructors’ [title] feels the same as the first because to get the first was quite an achievement if you still look at where we were just three years ago,” the Briton said in October. “We’ve overtaken every team in terms of development. We’ve outdone them by a long way in terms of development.

“And in a time when it’s almost harder to do than ever – with more restrictions, less wind tunnel time, all of those different things, budget cap – that’s probably been more in our favour over the last five years compared to the budget that the other teams could run at.”

Additional reporting by Filip Cleeren

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/lando-norris-details-winter-break-plans-forget-that-i-drive-in-formula-1/10783985/
DATE: 2025

McLaren's  has detailed his winter break plans, including reviews with his team, the Woking outfit's Christmas party and time away with his friends.

The 26-year-old driver is also looking forward to forgetting that he drives in Formula 1 to take some time away from it all.

"Actually, pretty simple next few weeks. We review everything. You know, there's still plenty of things that we know we would have loved to have done better," he told  when asked about what is in store for him over the winter break.

"I know I would have loved to have made a slightly different decision here or there. And we review all of those things, put them in a kind of little pile and make some quick assumptions and predictions from those things and results.

"So it's not a long break, but then it's the FIA awards which I'm looking forward to because it's, I think, the first time I might get to touch the trophy. So that's something I'm very excited for. And the team Christmas party, one of the best nights of the season.

"And then I go away with all my friends. We go skiing. I get all my injuries out of the way nice and early," he joked, "and just enjoy some time with the people that you've probably seen on TV a lot over the last day - my parents, my brother and my sisters, and honestly, try to forget this season. Forget that I drive in Formula 1.

"I don't want to forget what we've achieved this season, but just try to live a normal few days of the year."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Mark Sutton / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Norris also discussed what he will take from his 2025 season with him into next year.

"I take a lot out of this year," he said. "I take a lot. Plenty of things that I know I could have done better, I should have done better. But I did what I had to in the end. It was crazy close, and yeah, two points is all it was to Max [Verstappen]. That's pretty insane.

"I do have what it takes. I had my flaws. I had my mistakes, but I'm confident and I have the confidence now that I can look at them, review them, analyse them, not make them again, and do even better next season."

The 2025 winter break is much shorter ahead of the regulation changes in the championship from 2026. Private testing begins on 26 January.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/how-lando-norris-celebrated-his-first-f1-drivers-championship-title/10783980/
DATE: 2025

has detailed how he celebrated his first Formula 1 drivers' championship victory in Abu Dhabi.

The  driver finished the season-ending race at the Yas Marina Circuit in third behind race winner  and Norris's team-mate , which was enough to seal the deal. After extended track celebrations, the Briton made his way out for a very late night and early morning.

"I celebrated with my team, everyone, as many people as I could," Norris told . "We had a little team get-together. So just McLaren, friends, family near the hotel. Just a few drinks for them, and then extended and levelled up the celebrations after that.

"But I celebrated a lot because this is it. It's not like, OK, another step to go or one more year to get to this. What we achieved yesterday was it, that was the final piece of the whole thing.

"I still find it very surreal when someone says 'Congrats world champ' or something. It's definitely got a very different ring to it than when it's just 'Congrats Lando' or whatever it may be. I don't know, because I think it's still such a sizeable achievement."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

Norris became the 35th driver in history to claim a championship title and the 11th British driver to do so. He joins the likes of fellow Britons Mike Hawthorn, Graham Hill, Jim Clark, John Surtees, Sir Jackie Stewart, James Hunt, Nigel Mansell, , Sir  and .

"35th driver, I think, to do it. 35th in the world, and I got to be one of them," he added. "11 Brits. Brits are doing well. The Brits have always done well in Formula 1. So, I'm very proud also that I'm still racing against [world champions] on the grid now. A good amount of them actually, and of course for the Brits, for my name to be alongside them is pretty incredible."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/lando-norris-unveils-gold-helmet-to-celebrate-first-f1-world-title/10783696/
DATE: 2025

has celebrated his Formula 1 world title not just with a boozy night (and early morning) in Abu Dhabi, but also with a special helmet. He wore it during testing at Yas Marina just days after the 2025 F1 season came to an end, and photos of the new lid were posted to social media.

The design leans heavily into papaya and gold colouring, matched with the usual swirling lines of his personal branding.

“I've not cried in a while!” Norris admitted after his Abu Dhabi podium finish. “I didn't think I'd cry, but I did. It's a long journey… a long journey. First of all, I want to say a big thanks to everyone at  and to my parents... my mum, my dad, they're the ones who supported me since the beginning.”

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Norris arrived in Abu Dhabi 12 points clear of title contender  and 16 points ahead of his McLaren team-mate, . Starting on the front row beside the Dutchman, he quickly lost a place to the Australian who started behind him. But after a robust performance from Norris during the race, he safely ended in third, allowing him to finish the season with a two-point lead.

“There aren't many people in the world, not many people in Formula 1, who ever get to experience what I've experienced this season and this year,” he said. “I'm happy for everyone more than I am for me, but I'm crazy happy. It’s pretty surreal!”

On top of the helmet release, McLaren also released a special Lando Norris championship collection, featuring a papaya title-winning cap, hoodies, T-shirts and posters, alongside the team's standard merchandise. As you'd expect, the new clothing mirrors Norris's new helmet.

“It’s a moment that I’ll never forget,” the McLaren stalwart said. From a McLaren junior in 2017 to the team's most experienced driver and world champion in 2025, he deserves to wear a bit of gold this winter.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/piastri-papaya-rules-2025-title-battle/10783448/
DATE: 2025

heaped praise on  for how it allowed himself and team-mate  to fight fairly for the 2025 Formula 1 championship – despite criticism from outside.

, sealing a maiden crown at the Abu Dhabi finale as he finished 13 points above the Australian.

It was also a battle unlike many previous team-mate title fights, as the pair fought amicably throughout and willingly obliged to papaya rules, McLaren’s guideline for keeping everything fair.

That included Piastri handing second back to his rival in Monza after a slow pitstop for the Briton, or the ‘repercussion’ drama following Singapore as Norris collided into his team-mate mid-overtake.

The approach certainly split opinion considering they’d take points off each other and allow  to launch a late title bid, as Red Bull is built around the four-time world champion.

But Piastri thinks McLaren did the right thing by not prioritising one driver over the other and revealed that is likely to remain the same when F1 introduces new regulations in 2026.

“It is a testament to the way we go racing,” he said. “Obviously it's not easy fighting for two, the constructors' championship and the drivers' championship, with two very evenly matched drivers, but ultimately that's a problem that we knew we were going to have.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: James Sutton / Formula 1 / Formula Motorsport Ltd via Getty Images

“At the end of the day I think there's a lot of good things that come from that. Yes, there's difficult moments and tension at times, but I think both Lando and I have become better drivers from pushing each other to the limit.

“Sometimes that's been uncomfortable for everyone, but I think ultimately it's been a good thing.

“We've obviously had a lot of discussions through the year and I'm sure we'll have discussions in the off-season about anything we want to do slightly differently for next year, but at the end of the day they gave us both as good of a chance as the team could have to fairly fight for a world championship, and that's all you can ask for.”

Piastri was therefore still quite upbeat following the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix because he knows it’s been a good season for him, having closed a points deficit that stood at 82 to Norris last year.

“Definitely I can be very, very proud of the season I've had,” added the 24-year-old, who led the championship between April and October this year. “When I look at this season compared to my first two years in F1, this year has been head and shoulders above the first two.

“Ultimately, whilst the end result is not quite what I wanted, I think there's a lot of optimism and a lot of strength that I've gained from proving to myself what I can achieve through this season and those are the kind of things that are not necessarily tied to results.

“So I think for me I can definitely take that forwards into the future, and it's only my third attempt at this in F1. Hopefully I've got plenty more to go, but there's definitely lessons from this year that will only make me stronger for the years to come.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/uk-prime-minister-sir-keir-starmer-sends-message-to-lando-norris-after-wdc-victory/10783489/
DATE: 2025

UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer has congratulated Lando Norris on his Formula 1 drivers' championship victory.

The British driver secured the title after finishing the season finale in Abu Dhabi in third behind Red Bull's Max Verstappen and his McLaren team-mate Oscar Piastri in second. Norris's win has drawn a lot of praise from within the F1 paddock but also further afield.

After Norris became the 11th world champion from Great Britain, Starmer posted on social media: "Congratulations, Lando Norris, Britain’s new F1 champion! An unbelievable season and so well deserved."

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Starmer also commented on the championship win during a public event in Surrey on Monday 8 December.

"It’s amazing to be here the day after Lando won yesterday," he told the crowd. "And I hope you’ve all got a smile on your faces because that interview with him afterwards - which I hope you’ve all seen - very emotional interview with him after he had won…

"But I thought the way in which he wanted to thank the whole of his team was really important because he was emphasising that he’s the person obviously doing the racing but that can’t happen without the whole McLaren team at every level working with him and for him.

"And I hope you felt a bit of pride for him, what he’s achieved, because everything that you all do, all the teamwork you put in is all part of what produces that incredible result - and it was an incredible result. So it’s fantastic to be here today."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Erik Junius

Norris joins an impressive list of British F1 champions.

Mike Hawthorn: 1958Graham Hill: 1962, 1968Jim Clark: 1963, 1965John Surtees: 1964Sir Jackie Stewart: 1969, 1971, 1973James Hunt: 1976Nigel Mansell: 1992Damon Hill: 1996Sir Lewis Hamilton: 2008, 2014, 2015, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020Jenson Button: 2009Lando Norris: 2025

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/who-is-driving-at-the-2025-f1-abu-dhabi-post-season-test/10783370/
DATE: 2025

The 2025 Formula 1 competitive season may be over, but track activity is not: all 20 cars will be in action in  on Tuesday.

Each team will have one mule car driven by one or both race drivers, featuring Pirelli’s new range of rubber for the 2026 season, with slightly smaller and narrower tyres.

Even the tyres’ construction will be significantly different due to F1’s new technical regulations. When Pirelli asked all F1 teams to submit their predicted downforce levels for the end of 2026, there was much disparity between their simulations.

“It was more difficult for teams to estimate the performance of their 2026 cars at the end of the season,” Pirelli’s Mario Isola explained. “But we needed those simulations because we needed to design a product that is lasting for one year. If they just give us an idea of the car performance at the start of the season, and if we don't know what the rate of development will be, then it's difficult for us.”

Pirelli has therefore developed a broad spectrum of compounds, in case the real-world downforce levels turn out to be higher or lower than predicted by the teams.

The mule cars are 2025-spec machinery that has been modified to drop down closer to next year’s much lower downforce levels, though it cannot be fully accurate, partly because the 2026 cars will feature active aerodynamics.

“We have discussed some limitations with the teams, based on those first tests,” Isola added. “For example, we decided to avoid overloading the tyres on the straights. We were testing with a speed limit at 290km/h or 300km/h, because clearly they will have a lot less downforce on the straights next year. So we agreed on some methodologies for testing with the teams. Thanks to these methodologies it was possible to have feedback from the mule cars that was a little bit more coherent, more close.”

Valtteri Bottas, Mercedes, Mexico Pirelli Test

The test won’t change the 2026 compounds in any case, as the tyres have already been homologated for next season; it will simply help Pirelli choose the compounds for next year.

The Italian manufacturer has brought all compounds to Yas Marina Circuit except for the hardest dry-weather tyre, the C1, and the full-wet.

Meanwhile, the other 10 cars will be driven by rookies as part of the traditional end-of-season young drivers’ test. Only competitors with two grand prix starts or fewer are allowed to take part.

A number of 2025 race drivers will be skipping Tuesday's test.

This includes outgoing Red Bull racer  as well as his team-mate  and Mercedes' , with those teams giving all the track time to youngsters  and  respectively. Verstappen said he was “very happy” to miss out.

will field only , with  missing out.

will be the only test driver handling a mule car, with neither  nor  in action for Aston Martin – which is no surprise as far as the Spanish veteran is concerned, as he was looking forward to not driving the AMR25 any longer.

Ryo Hirakawa, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Many teams will field the same rookie as they did in Free Practice 1.

F2 frontrunners Dino Beganovic, Luke Browning and Jak Crawford will drive for the ,  and Aston Martin squads they are linked to.

Another F2 driver will be in action with his parent outfit,  at Alpine; the Enstone-based outfit will again loan out  to .

Now racing in IMSA with Cadillac,  reserve driver  will drive the Silver Arrow, while Toyota WEC driver and Haas reserve driver  will drive the VF-25.

Red Bull will entrust its protege  with the RB21 after the Japanese racer won the Super Formula championship. 2025 IndyCar runner-up and long-time  driver  will handle the title-winning F1 car.

Most importantly,  will gain important experience ahead of his graduation to Formula 1 with  in 2026.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/red-bull-explains-why-verstappen-didnt-pit-straight-after-piastri-in-abu-dhabi-gp/10783333/
DATE: 2025

Laurent Mekies has applauded ’s strategy for Formula 1’s title-deciding Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, which left his Red Bull team with a tough decision to make for .

After qualifying third,  was given hard tyres for the opening stint of the race, unlike Verstappen’s and ’ mediums. This meant Piastri stayed out longer, and a potential well-timed safety car intervention could even have helped him to victory.

Most strategies recommended by Pirelli involved a first stint on mediums, and Red Bull admittedly was surprised that McLaren willingly risked Piastri losing ground at the start on the hard compound.

“It was quite clever from their side,” team boss Mekies said. “It gave them a lot of options and ultimately gave us two scenarios to battle for the win. So yeah, we were not expecting it.”

Laurent Mekies, Red Bull Racing Team Team Principal

Photo by: Erik Junius

Piastri even  for second on the opening lap, before his very long opening stint prevented Verstappen from engaging in backing-up tactics to jeopardise Norris’ race.

Had Piastri won, Verstappen would have lost the title regardless of what happened to Norris, so he couldn’t afford to slow down while the Australian was in the lead.

Verstappen’s only opportunity to emulate ’s 2016 attempt to bunch up the pack came after right Piastri pitted. However, changing the Red Bull’s tyres on the next lap would have carried a risk of losing the lead to the Australian if the pitstop was short of perfect.

In the end, Red Bull believed it had more to lose by pitting and bunching up the field than maintaining Verstappen’s lead and hoping Norris might somehow lose another position.

Asked about a potential pitstop, Mekies said: “It was possible to do it. We didn't feel it was the right option for us.

“I mean, we would have given up quite a large advantage by doing so. And we didn't think that playing tactics would give us an edge today for the situations we were in. So we chose to stay out to maximise the advantage we had and to concentrate on winning the race.

“As we said, you know, we can't control what's behind us. So we did discuss that option, but we stick to our plan.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/somerset-street-renamed-lando-lane-for-f1-champion-lando-norris-as-former-teacher-reflects/10783441/
DATE: 2025

A street in Somerset has been renamed Lando Lane after McLaren's  clinched his first Formula 1 drivers' championship title at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.

Norris was born in Bristol and was educated at Millfield School in Street, Somerset. To mark the local hero's milestone, a pedestrianised avenue at Clarks Village in the same village as his school has been renamed Lando Lane, with the new signage already installed.

The avenue sits between Apple Court and Orchard Square off Farm Road.

Chris Davis, centre director of Clarks Village, said: "Lando is a local hero and we are all absolutely delighted that he’s been crowned world champion.

"He spent his formative years here in Somerset and it was during this period in his life when he took up karting, a path that has ultimately led to him becoming the best F1 driver in the world.

"Renaming our street ‘Lando Lane’ is our way of commemorating this incredible achievement from one of the region’s favourite sons."

As excitement grew in Norris's hometown, one of his former teachers, Mr Bishop, spoke to  about the achievement.

"I’m just really proud for him for his achievement. It’s quite an incredible journey, and it happens to very few people,” he said. "He had the talent that was kind of identified early on and nurtured throughout and even just to see how  have handled him over the last few years as well."

He added, "I still remember him as that little boy that was in the house. I’ve not had the good fortune to meet him since, I hope I do one day.

"But I would certainly remind him of what he was like when he was younger and just be a bit in awe of him and what he’s achieved. I’d wonder what was next for him and what his ambitions were going forward because I think he would be very keen to maintain himself at the very top of his game for some years to come.

"I’d probably like to know what motivates him. I’d like to hear about his memories of school and what he thought of his experiences at school."

Remembering Norris's time at school, Mr Bishop continued: "He was a really, really nice young boy, very sociable and extremely polite. He had a good sense of humour, and he just enjoyed really being one of the boys.

"It was good for him just to be part of the school environment as he had a lot of pressure on his young shoulders at that time in terms of trying to manage school work alongside the racing schedule that he had.

"He became go-karting world champion in the first year that he joined us and then moved on to the Formula 4 and Formula 3. That meant a lot of weekends away and a lot of work to catch up. Part of it was trying to help him manage that sort of thing.

"He was involved in the karting and when he was coming into school you knew he was he was talented. He was doing spectacularly well in all these races and winning the world championships for the karting was a really big one.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Andrew Ferraro / LAT Images via Getty Images

"If he came back from a bad race weekend you would kind of know because he was focusing on it, thinking about it and analysing it. I think that was probably one of the strengths that he had as an individual which has probably helped him reach this pinnacle of his career is that ability to analyse and self-reflect and to look for ways of improving.

"He was always looking out for the small details. He was constantly learning from his experiences. He was able to manage his school schedule and his racing schedule, and he had very little down time. That takes an amount of maturity in the way you can approach those things. He seemed to have his feet really firmly on the ground."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mclaren-two-turning-points-shaped-lando-norris-f1-title-winner/10783409/
DATE: 2025

chief Andrea Stella believes the experience of going up against  and his response to his early Formula 1 2025 difficulties were key to ' maiden championship win.

Norris prevailed over defending champion Verstappen after a tense title showdown in Abu Dhabi, with the McLaren drivers' third place enough to take his first world championship by two points.

The Briton's maiden title came one year after a brief but unsuccessful championship surge against Verstappen and followed a difficult spell in the first half of 2025 in which Norris had to overcome car handling difficulties while being outperformed by high-flying team-mate .

According to team boss Stella, those two periods helped shape Norris into the driver that triumphed in Abu Dhabi by giving him the belief that he has what it takes to fulfil his childhood dreams.

"Definitely, there was a lot that was taken away from the quest last year, even if it didn't go to the last race," Stella said when asked by Motorsport.com what the turning point was that elevated Norris from a promising race winner into a championship calibre driver. "There were some learning points, like Austria, it was a tough one. [But] I think Lando elevated his sense of status, like 'I can compete with Max'.

"This season there was another important turning point in my view, which is the way Lando responded to the difficulties we had at the start of the season. It was the start of a process which was structured, holistic, it involved personal development, professional driving, race craft.

"And I think it makes me particularly glad that Lando could capitalise on this, because this has been something that I've not necessarily seen many times before in terms of the amount of work, the people involved, and the rate of development."

Photo by: Jayce Illman / Getty Images

Stella said dealing with adversity is a quality both Norris and Piastri, who was also in title contention until Abu Dhabi, have become much better at over the past year.

"This again is valid for both our drivers, absorbing a couple of tough moments," he explained. "When we needed to tell the drivers that we got disqualified [in Las Vegas], that was tough, because they had done the job, but we had not. And they lost a lot of points.

"And in a similar way, absorbing the fact that in Qatar we had a moment where we could have done better [with the strategy]. But they never pointed the finger at the team.

"There are so many aspects in which both drivers have grown, and especially this constant support of the team, not only is the one that makes me most proud of our two guys, but I think is also the most important for the overall success."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
