======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/gasly-italian-gp-win-alphatauri/4936779/
DATE: 2020

Gasly took a surprise win for AlphaTauri at Monza in September after a red flag and a penalty for leader Lewis Hamilton shook up the pecking order.

Gasly was able to move into the lead once Hamilton served his penalty before fending off McLaren’s Carlos Sainz in the closing stages to take a famous win.

The result marked only the second victory in the history of the AlphaTauri team, and made him the first driver not racing for the ‘big three’ of Mercedes, Ferrari and Red Bull to win a race since Kimi Raikkonen in 2013.

Some of the most striking images from the race came during the podium ceremony, where Gasly sat on the top step as he came to terms with the enormity of his achievement.

The events of the Monza race and celebrations that followed are still strong in Gasly’s mind, even if the Frenchman felt it had been difficult to truly realise its significance due to the hectic 2020 F1 schedule.

“I remember every single second of that race and of the celebration,” Gasly told Motorsport.com. It’s something which is in my mind and will never go away.

“I would say this year was so compact and intense that it was actually hard to really take the time off, and get to relax and enjoy as much as probably I would have done in a more normal scenario without COVID.

“Still, when I had a week’s break between two races and I could get back home and I could realise, ‘OK, that’s what we’ve done', and really try to think over and remember all of the emotions that we lived.

“It was something quite incredible. This year, Mercedes won pretty much all the races, except Max [Verstappen] and Checo [Perez] - and us. So it was really something incredible.”

Gasly revealed that he keeps the winner’s trophy from the race at his apartment as a source of motivation, but felt the result had empowered the entire AlphaTauri team.

"When I’m in Italy in my apartment, that's where I stayed over the [Monza] weekend, it was the first time to sleep at home for a race weekend,” said Gasly.

“I’m sat exactly there, the same place I had my breakfast before my win, and I see the trophy and kind of feels pretty special.

“It’s a great motivation. Every morning, I take my coffee with the trophy in front of me, and think ‘yeah, we’ve done it’. It’s not impossible, even though we were a midfield team.

“That should be a motivation for all of us in the team to try and repeat as much as we can, strong performances like we have had in Sao Paulo or in Monza.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/kvyat-alphatauri-2021-decision-shame/4926553/
DATE: 2020

Kvyat is expected to be replaced at AlphaTauri by Red Bull and Honda junior driver Yuki Tsunoda in 2021 after the Japanese driver finished third in this year’s F2 championship.

AlphaTauri has not made any official announcement about Kvyat’s future, but the Russian driver has openly said he is already targeting a return to F1 in 2022.

Asked by Motorsport.com in the Abu Dhabi paddock if he thought he had made his last appearance, Kvyat said he wanted to “do vacation” and “then we’ll see for 2022”.

“I'll try to come back, because I feel like in the right ambience with the right people around me in the right car, which I like,” Kvyat said.

“I can be extremely competitive, and I still feel like I have a lot to give. I am grateful of course for everything, for all these years. It was great, great stint, these last two years with the team. That is fantastic. They are amazing.

“But it's a shame that I am not even able to say if I'm there or not next year.

“It's a bit funny, I'm talking here with you. And they still kind of didn't give me the official news. That’s about it.”

Kvyat has raced for AlphaTauri for the past two seasons in what is his third separate stint with the team.

He made his debut with its predecessor, Toro Rosso, in 2014 before moving to Red Bull one season later, only to be sent back to Toro Rosso four races into the 2016 season.

He was then dropped completely by the Red Bull programme at the end of 2017, only to then return in 2019 with Toro Rosso.

Asked if he felt his time with Red Bull was finally over, Kvyat said: “You can never say never.

“Life teaches you to never say never to anything. But of course, I think we've been on off quite a long time now.

“I had a contract for these two years. That was the deal. That's it. And for the rest, ask Helmut [Marko].”

Kvyat clarified that he was “a free agent now” and was open to any options for 2021, but hinted he could take a year out of racing.

“I’m open to many ideas, I don't say no to anything right now,” Kvyat said. Next year, I think racing-wise, perhaps I would like a year off. But we will see.

“If something really extremely good will come up, of course I'll think about saying yes.

“Otherwise, we'll try to focus us to come back to come back in Formula 1 in 2022.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/marino-sato-alphatauri-abu-dhabi-test/4923887/
DATE: 2020

Sato, 21, moved up to F2 full-time in 2020 with Trident after six appearances for Campos the previous year, having also won the Euroformula Open title the previous year.

The Japanese driver picked up one point across the 12-round season, finishing eighth in the Mugello sprint race.

Sato will link up with AlphaTauri for next Tuesday’s young driver test in Abu Dhabi, partnering Yuki Tsunoda in the team’s two-car entry for the running.

“I am extremely happy to be given this opportunity from AlphaTauri to drive an F1 car,” Sato said.

“We will try to do as many laps as possible to get used to the car quickly and to learn maximum out of it for whatever it comes in future.

“Obviously to be driving an F1 car is the dream of every racing driver, for sure I will enjoy a lot around Abu Dhabi!”

AlphaTauri team principal Franz Tost said he was pleased to welcome Sato to the team for the running, feeling it was a deserved test after a “solid job” in F2 this year.

“We are convinced he can do a good job as he is a skilled driver,” Tost said.

“The plan for the test is simple, getting him to do as many laps as possible to give him a good feeling for an F1 car. This test will be very useful, both for us and for Marino and we will do our best to help him understand how an F1 team operates in all its different aspects.

“In addition, from a technical point of view he will certainly learn something from which he will benefit next year, when he will continue in the F2 championship.

“I think this is a very good preparation for his future and it’s a pleasure to be part of his development towards what we hope will be a very successful career.”

Sato is currently taking part in F2 post-season testing in Bahrain with Trident before heading to Abu Dhabi for the F1 running.

Teams are permitted to enter two cars to the Abu Dhabi test, although not all will partake in what was initially slated to be a day solely for young drivers.

The FIA has since opened up the test to any driver who did not race full-time in F1 this year, allowing .

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/gasly-qualifying-sakhir-floor-damage/4922227/
DATE: 2020

The Frenchman remains concerned that he could suffer a repeat in the race as several teams struggled over the kerbs in the bumpy linking section of the outer circuit.

Gasly was an impressive third in Saturday’s FP3 session, and was then fifth in Q1.

However, he couldn’t maintain that momentum through the rest of qualifying after a heavy kerb strike cost him downforce, and ultimately he had to settle for ninth place, three spots behind teammate Daniil Kvyat.

“A bit mixed feeling,” he said. “Obviously after the pace we showed in P3 it was a bit frustrating, because I damaged the floor in Q1, and from there basically we tried to repair as much as we could.

“From Q2 it was pretty difficult. We had another hit in Q2. I’ve lost some parts of the floor, bargeboards, and it just made life really hard, so I was happy to make it to Q3 already.

“I think we were right on the edge, but a bit disappointed because obviously after what we showed I knew the car had more potential, and we were just stuck with this damage we keep having in Turn 8, on the exit kerb.”

Gasly was relieved to have qualified as high as ninth.

“In the end it was more about damage limitation, and I think that’s what we managed to achieve. So I think I’m still happy I made it to Q3, and we’re starting P9 I think is not bad.”

Gasly is confident of a strong race, although he's concerned about the fragility of the car.

“Actually I hope for some good points. I’ve been feeling strong in the car the whole weekend, long run pace we’re good, so I know in terms of pace we’ll have a good fight with the guys around us.

“And the main thing is just reliability where I’m a bit worried, because since yesterday we keep losing parts of the car, like we lost the mirrors, bargeboards were damaged, floor as well in P2, and then again in quali.

“So that’s the only thing that we need to be careful of, because 87 laps, it will be a very long race, and we've got to keep the car in one piece. But if we do so I’m confident we can have a good afternoon and score some good points.”

Additional reporting by Oleg Karpov

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/kvyat-grosjean-fire-bahrain-crash/4918343/
DATE: 2020

The AlphaTauri driver was swiped by Grosjean on the run out of the opening corner sequence in Bahrain, and that impact turned the Haas car right into the crash barriers.

Grosjean’s car then split in two as it went through the guardrail, erupting in flames as the Frenchman had to move quickly to get himself out of the fire.

He was flown by helicopter to hospital with light burns and suspected broken ribs from the impact.

Kvyat said that he had been initially upset about the way Grosjean had hit him, but said it all changed when he saw what happened behind him.

“[It] was a scary moment,” Kvyat told Sky. “I saw him [and] at first I was very angry that he came across like this. I thought "What is he doing?"

“But then my mind changed immediately when I saw in the mirrors the fire. I was just hoping he was okay.

“I immediately didn't like what I saw in my mirrors and we're glad... I'm glad he's okay. Honestly. Really, this just reminds you what we do is dangerous.”

Kvyat was involved in another incident at Turn 8 when the race restarted, as he tangled with Racing Point’s Lance Stroll – tipping the Canadian upside down.

The race stewards handed him a 10-second stop-go penalty for his part in the crash, something which he did not think was fair.

“I don't share the stewards view on that,” said Kvyat. “I think I had nowhere to go.

“I already put my whole car on the inside kerb. He on the other hand, he knew I was in there, but he turned in as if I wasn't there. So I'm a bit upset with this decision.

“It kind of ruined my race, because I had a great second start, I was again back in the game, but this penalty just ruined everything.”

Stroll escaped unhurt from the incident, saying it looked much worse on television than it was from the cockpit.

However, he said he saw nothing of what happened, as he felt he had turned in normally.

“Yeah, I mean, I didn't see anything,” he said. “I couldn't see him at all. I was halfway through the corner when I got hit. So yeah. It's just a shame.

“You know, we've scored two points since Monza, and there was a time where we were, you know, fourth in the world championship and things were looking really good.

“Since then, it's just been a disaster. So, I don't know what else to add. We just have to focus on the next one and try and put an end to this run of bad luck and, yeah, move forward from this.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/kvyat-interest-calls-2021-drive/4917882/
DATE: 2020

With Pierre Gasly already confirmed in the other seat, Kyvat’s place at the Faenza team is looking uncertain. F2 star Yuki Tsunoda is widely expected to be promoted, while Alex Albon is also potentially in the mix if he’s dropped by Red Bull Racing.

However, Kvyat says that he’s already heard from potential employers in other categories, and his manager Nicolas Todt is looking at options.

“People are calling me for sure quite a bit,” he said. “And for sure, there is a lot of interest from everything, from many places, but right now I know that I will be able to choose what I can do next year anyway.

“My deal was with AlphaTauri, Toro Rosso at the time, that I do 2019 and 2020. And that's it. And then we will see. However, after Abu Dhabi, regardless of anyone's decision, I'm deciding what I'm doing with my life, with my career.

“We'll see what it's gonna be, I still don't know. For sure there is interest from other people. I received calls, and it's good. It's always very nice to have interesting options. And it never hurts.

“So I'm definitely in touch with people, Nicolas is in touch with people. So it can become a very interesting thing in the future. So like I said, I'm open to many things, and I don't have any particular preferences at the moment. I am still focusing on these races here.”

Asked if he would accept a Red Bull/AlphaTauri reserve role, he said: “I don't know. I haven't thought about it yet. I haven't thought about these kind of things. So we'll see what will be on the table after the end of the year, first of all.

“And then you look at all the things and you pick what suits you the best, what you think you will be able to do the best job possible in a way.

“There is still nothing to think about yet, about these kinds of things. But of course, I'm not saying no to anything before it even comes.”

Kyvat admitted that one possibility is to take a year out and reflect, .

“I said that I have options. And one of the options is also just to have a proper holiday year, doing something else. Just enjoy other things, other things that I didn't do while I was in F1.

“I'm confident I can be competitive in anything. So whatever I drove usually, from day one,everyone was saying to me, ‘Wow, you're really competitive, even if it's a completely different thing to F1.’

“I had a full year off in 2018, and I barely drove anything. And then I came back to Abu Dhabi in the test, I did 160 laps and I was straight away very competitive also. So I'm also not too worried about that.”

Additional reporting by Oleg Karpov

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/gasly-alphatauri-turkey-pace-embarassing/4911902/
DATE: 2020

Gasly made it home in 13th, a place behind Kvyat, after both drivers struggled all day to find pace in the tricky conditions.

AlphaTauri’s hopes of challenging Ferrari for sixth place in the world championship also took a hit as the Maranello-based outfit logged 27 points with third and fourth places.

Gasly’s day started badly when the FIA launched an investigation after the team changed its mind having been given permission to change the power unit.

The stewards decreed that as the team had worked on the car, it was a parc ferme infringement, and Gasly thus had to start from the back of the grid.

“Not only today, the whole weekend was really bad,” he said. “So we had a very poor performance in the wet. And honestly it's a bit embarrassing, because we were just so slow with the wets, with the inters, we can't switch them on. It was the same in quali.

“And we took a penalty. So a lot of problems. And we need to do better, because honestly, it was a poor performance from our side since yesterday morning. And we'll have to work for the next races.

“I mean, it obviously was very unique conditions, that I don't expect we're going to face, but just for all of us, I think we need to understand what went wrong, and what didn't work.

“So we already have some answers from yesterday [qualifying]. But we cannot make the changes for today.

"Still, we should have anticipated all these things, and I think we could have done a better job. But now it's done, and we need to look at the next three races.”

Kvyat was one of the three drivers to complete the race on a one-stop strategy after being eliminated in Q1 on Saturday, but still finished a lap down in 12th.

“I was a bit frustrated to finish P12, because it's like no points and so much struggle,” said the Russian. “Fighting the car all race and finishing with no reward is a bit frustrating.

“There's not much to do to be honest. Our pace this weekend in these conditions, somehow the car wasn't in the right window. So we need to analyse why.

“But it's also understandable, these conditions you find extremely rarely, so it wouldn't be correct to build a car around these kind of conditions. But we just need to learn from it. And understand.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/gasly-fia-investigation-aborted-engine-change/4910278/
DATE: 2020

If the team is found to have broken the parc ferme rules a possible outcome could be a pitlane start.

Gasly initially qualified 15th, although he gained two places when McLaren drivers .

It’s understood that for tactical reasons the team decided to undertake a complete change of PU elements and start at the back of the grid.

Such a change would give Gasly enough elements to get through the rest of the season without a further grid penalty.

The team requested the change on Saturday evening following qualifying - just after the Sainz penalty was announced but before that of Norris was confirmed - and permission was granted by technical delegate Jo Bauer.

Under parc ferme rules usually changes are only allowed if the team can demonstrate that there is a technical issue, and that any replacement parts are of the same spec. However it’s generally understood that doesn’t apply to PU elements.

Work began in the garage on Saturday evening. However, on Sunday morning the team told Bauer that it didn’t want to change the PU after all. After apparently reviewing race strategies it decided that it wasn’t worth sacrificing Gasly's 13th place.

Intriguingly Bauer has pointed out to the stewards that this suggests that the request for a change was not due to a “physical issue” but “strategic reasons.”

He also stressed the fact that the rear was off the car meant that the FIA could not confirm that other changes had not been made.

In his report Bauer said: “Yesterday the Scuderia AlphaTauri Honda team requested to change all PU elements on car number 10 for new ones. This request was approved at 18:55 on 14 September [sic] 2020, following a written request from the team concerned, this being in accordance with Article 34.2 of the 2020 F1 Sporting Regulations.

“The team started to take the car apart and the car was on high stands over night due to the work already carried out (gearbox removed, ICE removed, radiators removed etc.). This morning the team has withdrawn the request which allows an assumption that the change was requested for strategic reasons and not for physical ones.

“More importantly the car was already disassembled to a stage where it is impossible for the scrutineers and the other supervision means in place to guarantee that no modification to the car has been carried to any component by disassembling and refitting the original items.

“For the above mentioned reasons I am referring this matter to the stewards for their consideration.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/vips-red-bull-reserve-driver-turkey/4907694/
DATE: 2020

Vips, 20, has been part of the Red Bull junior programme since the end of 2018, and had been due to race in Super Formula this year, only for travel restrictions to complicate his plans.

Vips has instead made appearances in both F2 and the Formula Regional European Championship, and will now serve as Red Bull’s reserve driver in Istanbul this weekend.

Red Bull announced on Twitter that Vips had completed the required 300km in an F1 car to gain an FIA superlicence, meaning he would be eligible to race if required.

Vips will deputise for regular Red Bull and AlphaTauri reserves Sebastian Buemi and Sergio Sette Camara, both of whom are tied up with other commitments this weekend. Buemi is racing for Toyota in the FIA World Endurance Championship season finale in Bahrain.

Vips currently has 32 superlicence points to his name accrued through junior categories, but benefits from the recent changes to the FIA requirements that allow drivers with more than 30 points to be eligible if their programmes were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Vips is yet to make an appearance in Super Formula this year, with Red Bull appearing to have abandoned plans for him to feature in the Japanese series.

Vips joined DAMS in F2 as a replacement for the injured Sean Gelael from the Spa round onwards, and has scored 16 points in eight races, including a podium at the Mugello sprint race.

With Gelael set to return from his back injury for the round in Bahrain later this month, it is unclear if Vips will have any more racing duties through 2020.

He has not raced in the Formula Regional European Championship since the Mugello round last month, having scored three podiums in nine races this year.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/kvyat-imola-safety-car-restart/4904120/
DATE: 2020

The Russian executed a brilliant restart after the late safety car period at the Emilia Romagna Grand Prix, making full use of his soft tyres to move up from seventh to fourth in just half a lap.

He not only got his getaway spot on by moving past Sergio Perez and Alex Albon on the run down to the first chicane, but also executed a decisive move around Leclerc at Piratella to give himself a shot of a podium finish.

Speaking to Motorsport.com about the secrets to his restart, Kvyat said he knew immediately before the racing got underway again that he could not hesitate in making his moves.

“I knew I had a bit of a warm up advantage over those guys with the hard tyres, and I had to use it immediately otherwise they would warm their tyres up,” the AlphaTauri driver explained.

“So I basically just tried to get as good an exit as possible out of last corner, and get the good slipstream.

“I saw that Sergio was hesitating a bit where to go and then he went to the right. I said: ‘okay, I'll take more slipstream out of Alex's car and try and go to the left.’

“I was hoping he wouldn't make any strange moves because it could be very like costly at that speed. It was very tight and there was not a lot of space in there, but I managed to have a good braking into Turn One.”

After getting past Perez and Albon, Kvyat set about closing down and getting past Leclerc, knowing he had to pounce quickly if he was going to capitalise on his tyre advantage.

And while the high-speed Piratella corner is not an obvious place for overtaking, Kvyat said he could not waste the opportunity that came up as he picked up the Ferrari slipstream on the climb out of Tosa

“Sometimes you have to invent things a bit,” he said about the decisive Leclerc move. “I knew that he [Leclerc] didn't have as much confidence as me, because his tyres were colder. And I said, ‘let's see how he's going to react.’

“I had a good run out of Tosa. I tried to prepare as good an exit as possible out of there, and I got a good traction.

“I used a bit of boost and good slipstream. It was a very short slipstream, but good. And then I just tried to brake a bit later than him. I saw that he braked earlier than me and I thought if I leave him enough space on the inside, I'll make it. That's exactly what happened. And also, you can trust certain drivers a bit with these kind of things.”

Kvyat’s move past Leclerc put him in touch with Renault’s Daniel Ricciardo, who was running third at the time.

But his chances of challenging the Renault diminished as Kvyat needed to recharge his battery pack, plus his Australian rival was able to get his hard tyres up to temperature.

“I had used quite a lot of battery by that point,” he said. “So when I got to Daniel, I had to start a bit more charging, and there were a couple of laps where I had to wait.

“Then I started putting pressure on him again, but he managed to warm up his tyres while I was battling with other guys. The Renault has good straight line speed as well and it was a tough one. Maybe with more laps, it could have been possible.”

Even though Kvyat ran out of laps to overtake Ricciardo and take a podium finish, he still says his fourth place was a good result as AlphaTauri aims to close in on Ferrari in the constructors’ championship.

“When I was crossing the line, I wasn't putting my hand in the air or anything like that, because I was still pretty focused on Daniel and trying to get him,” he said.

“Of course, then a few metres after, I also thought about it and it was a strong race. Then I was happy, of course, with the result.

“I looked back at my overtakes after the restart, and it was good feeling.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/yuki-tsunoda-alphatauri-test-imola-honda/4903810/
DATE: 2020

Red Bull junior and Formula 2 racer Tsunoda took another step towards a potential F1 drive in 2021 by completing his first F1 test for AlphaTauri at Imola, driving a 2018-spec Toro Rosso STR13 car.

The running only adds to the growing momentum building for Tsunoda to partner Italian GP winner Pierre Gasly at AlphaTauri next season as a replacement for Daniil Kvyat. Tsunoda completed more than the 300km of running required for an FIA superlicence, but also requires a top-five finish in F2 this season to qualify for a superlicence in 2021.

After testing in damp conditions in the morning, Tsunoda was able to complete some dry running in the afternoon, managing both qualifying hot laps and race simulation runs. Reflecting on his first day of F1 testing, Tsunoda said that while the car itself was easier to drive than he anticipated, it was also more physically challenging.

“It was easier for the driving, but also harder physically,” said Tsunoda. “I expected it to be a little bit less hard physically, especially on the neck. Because driving in Formula 2, I don’t feel much on my neck, and my neck is pretty strong.

“After I drove a Formula 1 car today, I felt it pretty hard, especially in the braking zone and the braking performance. The braking power is more than I expected. I need a lot of training until maybe the next session and next event to drive a Formula 1 car and prepare.”

Tsunoda also said the power of the F1 car was big step up from what he was used to in F2, where he has scored two wins and sits third in the championship in his first year in the category.

“After I put the throttle, I initially feel the big power from the engine which I don’t feel much in Formula 2,” said Tsunoda. “I think that power is more than I expected, and that was, even in the rain, it was really, really big performance for the initial struggle. Even in rainy conditions, I think it was more [performance] than I felt in Formula 2 dry conditions. That was the biggest surprise for today.”

Tsunoda was able to draw on his experiences in Red Bull’s simulator to get used to the complex steering wheel and various settings on the F1 car, but was pleased with how he managed it by the end of the day.

“The experience from practicing in the simulator in Red Bull helped me a lot to get used to it really quickly, and the end of the session was really consistently fast,” he said. “Even in race sim, the lap times were really consistent, even while I’m doing lots of things on the steering every lap, almost every single corner. That was a good step for me.”

Tsunoda is widely expected to appear in an F1 practice session with AlphaTauri before the end of the season, and is already confirmed to be taking part in the end-of-year young driver test in Abu Dhabi.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/tsunodas-2021-f1-setbacks-put-him-on-long-road-to-recover-confidence/6884986/
DATE: 2021

Following a number of incidents in his first F1 season, particularly in qualifying, Tsunoda initially struggled to live up to his impressive debut at Bahrain in which he scored ninth place.

F1 managing director of motorsport Ross Brawn even labelled Tsunoda as F1's "best rookie for years" following his immediate breakthrough result, before a string of difficult races left the Japanese driver devoid of confidence.

Finishing fourth, Tsunoda felt that Abu Dhabi was his most complete weekend of the season, after he had steadily rebuilt his confidence in recent months.

"I think it was a long journey to improve my confidence, from especially Imola. I really struggled, and it was a long journey, but I'm feeling pretty good and pretty prepared for the next year to have this confidence."

"[2022 is] going to be a tough season as well, starting quite early next year. So there's not much time to rest.

"But I think I still have to improve myself, especially physically. So [I will] just keep pushing, and try to have a good start for next year.

"It depends on the car, but for me, for my side in terms of confidence maybe still, I have to find a little bit of confidence, but just have to build it up the same progress as I did in these last five races. And I think I have to improve especially [on the] fitness side."

Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri AT02

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Tsunoda added that he felt his good start to the season finale at Abu Dhabi was the "key" to securing his best result in F1, in which he outqualified teammate  after making his way to Q3.

"The start was really good," Tsunoda explained. "Obviously, I've had bad starts, consistently, I lost positions on the first lap in the last three or four races. And this was my key point today.

"And even I improved this one, and I gained even one position on the first lap. And that was, I think, the key point for today's race. that I got P4.

"After that the pace was quite good, and in the end, I managed to pass [Valtteri] Bottas on soft tyres - so that was good."

During the race, Tsunoda also battled against Alpine's , who ran to a slightly different strategy after going long into the race on his medium tyres.

Tsunoda felt that Alonso made a pass on him off track, but was grateful to have been in the same ballpark as the two-time F1 champion.

"I think, to be honest, he completely passed off track. So he should give me back the position immediately.

"But he didn't, so I just had to overtake. But anyway, it was fun to battle with that kind of legend."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/gasly-alphatauri-understands-worst-performance-of-f1-2021-in-qatar/6843176/
DATE: 2021

Gasly started the inaugural F1 race at the Losail International Circuit from second, the first front-row start of his F1 career, after yellow flag penalties demoted  and .

But despite pursuing a two-stop strategy to mitigate the heavy tyre wear expected at the Qatar track, Gasly struggled badly with overheating and wearing his tyres, causing him to fall outside the points-paying positions to 11th at the finish.

It was a heavy blow to  hopes of beating  to fifth in the constructors' championship, the two squads having entered the weekend level on points.

With  and  finishing third and fifth respectively, AlphaTauri now faces a 25-point deficit with two races remaining this year.

Speaking to assembled media on Thursday prior to the Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, Gasly explained that the team "know the reasons" for its struggles in the race and "have ideas" about how to resolve them.

"It was pretty shocking and disappointing after our best Saturday of the year, but we had signs on Friday already that our long runs were not so good," he said.

"In the race we massively struggled with the tyre wear, we were burning the rubber extremely fast and after 10-12 laps we basically had no rubber left on our tyres.

"We knew already before the weekend that it's something we struggle with, but we didn't expect to struggle to that extent in the race and it meant we had the worst performance of the season.

"Disappointing, but we learned a few things and now we are ready to face these last two races and try to get the best result."

Pierre Gasly, AlphaTauri

Photo by: Steven Tee /

Gasly said that AlphaTauri's calculations before the race had suggested the one-stop strategy successfully employed by Alpine wouldn't be possible, and conceded "there are a couple of things we could have done better".

"But overall we were too slow and degrading the tyres too much," he added.

Speaking about the Jeddah track, Gasly said he is optimistic that the team can return to the points, although anticipates the track characteristics mean "it's not going to be an easy one for us".

"Obviously we have been better in qualifying than in race trim, but I'm still confident we can do a decent job here," he said.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/gasly-frustrated-by-shocking-alphatauri-f1-pace-in-qatar-race/6808757/
DATE: 2021

Gasly lined up second for the start of the race at the Losail International Circuit after penalties for  and  promoted him from fourth place on the grid.

Gasly had not finished a session outside of the top four all weekend, but quickly struggled in the race, dropping back to fifth before pitting early on lap 13, with  committing to a two-stopper.

It dropped Gasly down the order and left him struggling in traffic. He ultimately pitted for a second time from 10th place, and could only recover to 11th by the flag.

"It was very, very frustrating, our pace was shocking basically," Gasly said in the written media pen in Qatar following the race.

"At the moment we don't really have the answer. But we tried to stick with Fernando [Alonso] for the first few laps. I could barely make it, and then after that we tried to go for an aggressive two-stop strategy but the pace was never there.

"It was shocking. I tried to push as hard as I could in the car, and even with fresher tyres than Fernando, I was miles away when he was on used tyres. It was so frustrating."

Pierre Gasly, AlphaTauri AT02, arrives on the grid

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Gasly said he could not understand how AlphaTauri could have been so slow, and wondered whether the changes made to his car after picking up damage in Q3 on Saturday could have played a role.

"We changed the front wing and floor after yesterday's incident in quali, I don't know if it had an impact," Gasly said.

"We use the medium tyres in quali that we used again in the races, they were not brand new. I don't know if that had an impact.

"We need to review everything because I was even pushing really hard on the tyre, and the laptimes were never there today."

Asked if a different strategy might have been possible, Gasly said: "We could have done five stops, [or] three, two, one, it doesn't matter.

"Honestly, it was just our pace. We're just too slow and even behind Seb [Vettel] I couldn't pass him. I didn't have the pace so it's very, very frustrating."

AlphaTauri's failure to score in Qatar allowed  to open up a 25-point gap in the fight for fifth in the constructors' championship as  and  both finished in the top five.

"I don't understand how both cars can qualify like that in the top 10 and have good pace, and both go backwards during the entire race and just not show any signs of speed," Gasly said.

"That's the main thing. Obviously [it is] very frustrating when you see where the Alpines finished, but at the end of the day we just need to be objective with ourselves.

"They did a much better job than we did, and then yeah, we can just congratulate them."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/tost-gasly-made-another-big-step-forward-in-f1-2021/6794512/
DATE: 2021

After a failed stint with Red Bull's main team, Gasly returned to its sister team  after the 2019 summer break, remaining the Faenza squad's lead driver ever since.

As soon as he regained his confidence, the Frenchman started producing excellent results, topped off by a stunning maiden win in last year's Italian Grand Prix.

In 2021 Gasly has continued to shine, almost single-handedly keeping AlphaTauri in the hunt for fifth place in the constructors' championship.

While his team is currently tied with , Gasly occupies ninth in the drivers' standings, boosted by a Baku podium and a pair of fourth-place finishes.

According to team boss Tost, Gasly is still improving race by race, as evidenced by his stellar run of qualifying performances of late.

The past two grands prix he managed to outqualify all cars from  and , who are fighting higher up in the constructors' championship.

"Pierre is always increasing his performance," Tost said ahead of last week's Sao Paulo Grand Prix.

"Because if you compare him now with at the beginning of the season he made another big step forward from his behaviour in the car, from the understanding of the technical side.

"We had just now the technical debrief and he changed so many positions from the mapping site in his qualifying lap. And this shows how matured he is, how good he understands the technique of the car, because these cars and power units are so complicated.

"Changing some modes during the qualifying lap helps you to improve the performance and he did it in a fantastic way and therefore he is 5th."

Pierre Gasly, AlphaTauri, Drivers Press Conference

Alpine and AlphaTauri both left Brazil with 112 points. While Tost acknowledged his team's car is clearly the fastest of the two at the moment, he remains wary of the fact that "one race can change everything", given Alpine managed to win the Hungarian Grand Prix with .

"Normally Scuderia AlphaTauri must be settled on this position, because in my opinion our car is faster," he admitted.

"We have two fantastic drivers, and the team is doing a really good job. But you never know what happens because Alpine scored nearly all the points [possible] in Budapest. That means in one race can change everything.

"Therefore, as long as the arithmetical situation is not clear, you can never say that you're in front."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/norris-surprised-alphatauri-not-closer-to-mclaren-ferrari-f1-fight/6773243/
DATE: 2021

and  have spent much of 2021 fighting to lead the midfield teams and finish as best of the rest behind Red Bull and  in the constructors' championship.

Ferrari pulled 13.5 points clear of McLaren in the fight for third place in Mexico, but it was  who topped the midfield as  finished the race in fourth place.

AlphaTauri is now level with  in the fight for fifth in the constructors', but sits 149 points behind McLaren in fourth.

Asked if he thought AlphaTauri was becoming an unwanted variable in the fight for third against Ferrari, McLaren driver Norris said: "They have been all season.

"There's been many races where they've been a long way ahead of us, and some where they've been a long way behind us. They've had good weekends all year, they've been very competitive."

Norris admitted he was surprised to see such a big gap between McLaren and AlphaTauri in the standings, and that the team had never disregarded the threat posed by Gasly and teammate .

"I'm surprised they're not anywhere near as close as what they should be in terms of constructors' points, because they've had a very competitive car all season," Norris said. "They've always been there or thereabouts. They're always in consideration for qualifying and races pretty much through the whole year. We've never cancelled them out of anything.

"They're there, they'll probably make our life more difficult, which is a fair one to them. But hopefully we'll be ahead this weekend."

Pierre Gasly, AlphaTauri AT02, Charles Leclerc, Ferrari SF21 , and Antonio Giovinazzi, Alfa Romeo Racing C41

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

Ferrari has managed to swing the battle for third place in its favour at recent races, enjoying a lift in form since introducing its upgraded power unit hybrid system.

Both  and Carlos Sainz felt McLaren would have an edge over Ferrari this weekend, with the Italian team's simulations suggesting it was around half a tenth of a second behind for outright pace.

Norris said he "thought it was going to be the opposite" at Interlagos, but knew the battle would remain close.

"It's going to be tight, it's always tight," Norris said. "I don't think it's going to be convincing in any way, hopefully it isn't anyway. But Ferrari have been the stronger team lately, they've been the guys who have been consistently ahead in qualifying and the races.

"Looking at the stats lately, you'd put them ahead. But we're working hard. We've done a lot of reviews from Mexico and so on.

"Looking back at two years ago here, we had a pretty decent car and Carlos was on the podium and so on. So we're hopeful and confident we can have a good weekend here."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/tsunoda-not-at-fault-mexico-qualifying-controversy/6755112/
DATE: 2021

The  driver was deemed to have ruined the crucial final qualifying laps of both drivers from the sister  team, and as such had the massed ranks of  and  fans on his case.

But what actually happened in those final moments of qualifying, and was the Japanese driver really at fault?

In fact it was an unusual set of circumstances. While it often happens at other stages of qualifying, it's rare for a driver to be on a slow in-lap right at the end of Q3, when everyone else is going flat out on what is supposed to be their fastest lap of the weekend.

And that was down to the strategy adopted by the AlphaTauri team. Tsunoda had a back of the grid power unit change penalty, and thus he went into qualifying with two targets – finish ahead of the three other drivers carrying similar penalties and thus claim 17th on the grid, and help his teammate  with a tow.

As penalties have mounted up in recent races we've seen a few similar situations, but usually the towing only goes as far as Q2, because penalised drivers don't want to reach Q3 and be committed to starting on the "wrong" tyre from the back of the grid.

This time around two of the penalised guys did make it out of Q2.  managed to do it on the favoured medium tyre and thus didn't make any compromises, but Tsunoda had to use the soft, thus committing himself to using a tyre at the start that everyone else tried hard to avoid.

The upside for his team was that Gasly would have a tow for the crucial final run in Q3, and that's what it worked towards.

The strategy meant that once he'd done his job and pulled Gasly down the straight Tsunoda would have to tour round knowing that a lot of fast cars would be coming up behind him on their final hot laps. In the event those he would have to let by were both Ferraris, both Red Bulls and both .

Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Here's a timeline of the radio traffic between Tsunoda and his engineer Mattia Spini at the end of Q3 as he approached the end of the preparation lap, and tried to make a gap between himself and  up ahead.

Team: "Keep the position, it's good, stay there."

TSU: "I'm giving the pressure to Ricciardo."

Team: "You're doing very well, so it's all fine."

Tsunoda then dropped back slightly from Ricciardo as he reached the stadium section, while Gasly got into position behind, ready to get the tow.

Team: "OK, nobody pushing behind, so a nice time to open that gap. We have two seconds now. Six seconds now, we are good. Charge on and push."

Tsunoda then blasted down the straight with Gasly behind. At the end of it he jinked to the right and let the Frenchman through. He'd done what was asked, and moved aside like a pacemaker in a 1500m race.

Having slowed right down, Tsunoda then negotiated the Turn 1/2/3 complex, and headed down the straight to Turn 4. They key now was not to risk any penalty by impeding another driver.

Team: "OK, good job, Sainz is 12 behind."

He then crawled around Turns 4, 5 and 6.

Team: "Sainz seven behind, pushing. Stay negative."

He almost came a complete stop on the short straight that followed, so keen was he to stay well out of the way of the  driver.

That negative message was an important one – in effect it was a hurry up, Spini reminding him that he couldn't go too slowly, and had to keep up the required minimum speed for an in-lap.

Team: "And then we have Perez four behind, pushing. Pushing."

Tsunoda was now in the fast esses section, where it's all too easy to get in the way. To stay clear of Perez he briefly sped up and then drove straight onto the run-off area at Turn 10, in order to leave a clear track for the Red Bull driver. It's a standard move in such circumstances – but it threw up a massive cloud of dust.

Team: "Perez behind you. And Verstappen three behind. F***!"

It was at this point that Spini realised that Perez had gone off the road, joining Tsunoda in the run-off, and that both cars had then potentially interfered with the closely following Verstappen's lap.

After a pause Tsunoda said: "I mean I let him past really… I didn't do anything there."

Spini carried on monitoring approaching cars as his driver headed down the back straight towards the stadium.

Leclerc and Bottas swept by on the straight, and then after entering the stadium Tsunoda turned sharp left and cut across the tarmac infield, allowing Hamilton a clear run through the twisty bits. He then headed into the pits and came to a stop in the pitlane, where the radio chat continued.

"I couldn't do anything," he said. "Understand, you gave him space," said Spini. "You couldn't do anything more. Understood."

Then Spini added: "So Yuki, we are in front of Norris, and Gasly P5. So very nice job."

Spini may have tried hard to maintain a positive vibe, but the proverbial had already hit the fan as replays of the incident were shown, and a fruity radio message from Verstappen was played.

Having aborted his final lap and realised that his dream of starting from pole at his home race was gone Perez said nothing until he got back to the pitlane and stopped in parc ferme. His message was short but not sweet: "Ahhhh, f***'s sake."

On seeing the two cars off the road Verstappen had lifted briefly, expecting a yellow that never came.

In fact the marshals on the corner did a great job. They understood the significance of calling for a yellow with cars on their final laps, and instead they acted like a referee waving play on, and not whistling for a foul.

Verstappen soon realised that there was no yellow, but the damage to his lap was done even before he locked up at Turn 13 in the stadium. He then had a wobble onto the pit straight. After crossing the line he said, "Ah for f*** sake, what happened there in front of me?"

"Not quite sure," replied his engineer. "Slow button on, please Max. Tsunoda just, I dunno, parked it, so Checo had to back out."

"Unbelievable, such a dumb idiot," replied Verstappen.

Shortly afterwards in the press conference the Dutchman expanded on how things had unfolded.

"I don't know what happened in front of me, but it must have been Yuki holding up first Checo and then both of them, of course, had to go wide," he said.

"You arrive so quick it's difficult to pinpoint what's happening. I just saw a lot of dust, so I thought a car crashed and now with the yellow flag rules, I've been caught with that already here in Mexico, I backed out of it a bit.

"And then no yellow flag came so I continued pushing, but of course that's already like two-and-a-half tenths gone. So, my lap was basically finished."

His RBR team boss Christian Horner was quick to add his view.

"I think we got Tsunoda'd," he said. "Both drivers were up on their last lap. Max was up two-and-a-half tenths, I think Checo was just under two-tenths up.

"I don't understand why he was just cruising around at that part of the circuit. It's disappointing, because it affected both of the drivers because they're both pretty annoyed."

By now the momentum was building, and Tsunoda was widely seen to be at fault, although not all of those who rushed to judgement understood that he had driven off the road to get out of the way.

When he met the media immediately after qualifying, he still wasn't sure precisely what happened. However as the potential ramifications of having upset the Red Bull management became clear he looked like a deer caught in headlights.

"I didn't mess up the Red Bulls," he said. "Just a mistake by themselves. I don't know about Max? Did I hold up Max as well?"

Shown a video clip by a team member he said: "I went outside and I couldn't do anything more than that one. I mean, I don't know, where should I go there?

"If I had another chance I'd do the same thing. I don't know what should I do? Do you think I did wrong thing?"

Perez suggested that he'd gone off because he'd lost downforce due to Tsunoda being in front.

"Yuki was just ahead," he said. "I think I was a bit too close, and I lost a bit too much already, because we go through the high speed and it's pretty difficult through there when you have a close car ahead of you. And unfortunately I lost it there."

Given that Tsunoda was running slowly would the aero impact really have been that great? Or was it more a case that he was simply distracted momentarily by the huge cloud of dust thrown up by the AlphaTauri when it motored onto the run-off, something that the Japanese driver – trying to do the right thing – could not have foreseen?

Perez was right on the ragged edge, gunning for pole at his home race, with a car that frustratingly wasn't as good as it had been a few hours earlier when he topped FP3.

He was also forced to dig even deeper to try to match the surprising pace of Mercedes in qualifying. It wouldn't have taken very much to tip him over that edge, and send him off the road.

And don't forget how unusual it is for a driver to be running slowly at the end of Q3. Perez would not have been expecting to come across a slow moving car that was actively trying to stay out of his way, and he wasn't told by his team to watch out for a slow car. Like Verstappen, he saw the dust and assumed that there had been an incident.

In the end it was moot. While Horner noted that both drivers were up on their previous times before they came across Tsunoda, they were not going fast enough to have knocked Bottas and Hamilton off the front row, as Toto Wolff pointed out.

"I think at that stage, sector one and sector two, they were behind," he said. "I think it was something like two-tenths or two-and-a-half tenths."

The bottom line was it was just one of those things, and it was significant too that there wasn't even a hint of an FIA impeding investigation. A few seconds either way and Tsunoda would have been trundling down a straight when Perez and Verstappen passed by, and it wouldn't have been an issue.

It was an unfortunate co-incidence that the cars affected were the two Red Bulls. The incident made for some tension between the AlphaTauri and RBR camps, and it was clear that Franz Tost wasn't happy that his man had taken such a verbal beating from all sides.

"I absolutely don't understand why Perez went also off the track there," he said. "Yuki went to the side as all the drivers do in qualifying to make a place for the cars that are coming behind which are on a qualifying lap, he was not on a qualifying lap. It is as easy as that. Therefore I don't understand anything about this."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/tost-explains-albon-f1-weekend-support-tsunoda-alphatauri/6749325/
DATE: 2021

With Albon’s commitments to race in the DTM this season having come to an end,  boss Franz Tost revealed at the Mexican Grand Prix that the Thai driver was now assisting Tsunoda.

“It's true,” said Tost. “Alex comes to Yuki, talks with him, explains him the track, whatever, and Yuki asks [questions]. It's a talk between drivers.

“I think that's quite positive for Yuki because he gets a lot of knowledge from Alex, and therefore, it's been very positive.”

Tsunoda has endured something of a rollercoaster campaign where a strong debut in Bahrain was followed by some more difficult times as a spate of crashes hindered his results.

But a move to Faenza to be closer to his AlphaTauri team, and a greater understanding of the challenges of F1, have helped him move up the order and he has recently been getting back into Q3 again.

Tost said it made perfect sense for his squad to call on the experience of Albon, who remains a Red Bull reserve until the end of this season when he becomes a  driver.

“Alex is in the Red Bull family and he didn't have so many free weekends, because he was running in the DTM, but we said when he is at the track that he should support Yuki,” added Tost.

Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri AT02

Photo by: Steven Tee /

“We told Yuki, please ask him questions so that he can help you to understand everything better. It works very good.”

While Red Bull’s bosses did get frustrated at Tsunoda’s mistakes earlier in the season, Tost says that he is impressed with the way that the youngster has kept his cool and turned things around.

“Yuki is improving and getting better and better,” he said. “He has a better understanding of the engineering side of the car.

“He has a lot of meetings with his engineers in Faenza, to get a better picture about everything and to get a better feeling also in the car, and what's going on.

“I was surprised this morning by his performance [he ended up 11th] because we must not forget he is here the first time, and he showed really a good run in FP1.

“Although he must start from the back of the grid because we changed the power unit, with this performance here you can overtake, so I am quite optimistic that he can also score some points.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/tsunoda-hold-off-hamilton-verstappen-turkey/6685468/
DATE: 2021

Honda-backed youngster Tsunoda reached Q3 for the third time this season at Istanbul Park on Saturday, and started well to sit eighth early on ahead of Hamilton.

The AlphaTauri driver was able to keep Hamilton back for a number of laps with some solid defence, stalling the Mercedes’ driver’s recovery from a grid penalty that meant he started 11th.

But Hamilton was eventually able to make a pass on lap eight around the outside of Turn 3, with Tsunoda then dropping out of the points after spinning on lap 22.

Tsunoda explained that he “used too much tyre early on” in the fight with Hamilton, but that he wanted to do everything he could to help Honda-powered Verstappen’s title bid for Red Bull before the Japanese manufacturer’s exit from F1 at the ned of the year.

“I want Max to win in the last year of Honda, and for Red Bull as well,” Tsunoda said. “So I tried to hold Lewis up as much as possible, for I don't know how many laps. I was trying to save more of my tyre.

“I tried to hold him behind for 20 laps. Eight laps is not enough.”

Hamilton would go on to finish the race fifth for Mercedes, meaning Verstappen regained the championship lead by six points with six races remaining.

Tsunoda crossed the line 14th in the end, and lamented the spin after believing he had the pace to score points.

He explained that the dirty spray - something also noted by Nikita Mazepin and Lando Norris - made him think a car was close behind, prompting him to push harder.

“I couldn't see anything because of dirt and dust,” Tsunoda said. “I just couldn't see, I thought there was a car right behind me so I just have to push, and I spun.

“The spin ruined my whole race so it's a shame. We [would have been] able to score points so, yeah, just a shame.”

Tsunoda also rued the lost points as AlphaTauri pushed to catch Alpine for fifth place in the constructors’ championship, with the gap standing at 12 points after Turkey.

“It was an opportunity to get us big points compared to other teams,” he said.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/tsunoda-contract-extension-was-never-in-doubt-tost/6667712/
DATE: 2021

Rookie Tsunoda arrived in F1 with high expectations, but has endured an erratic campaign so far, with several crashes in the first half of the season and being overshadowed by teammate Pierre Gasly.

AlphaTauri announced last week that it would retain both Gasly and Tsunoda for 2022, and the Japanese driver admitted he was surprised to have his contract extended given his on-track performances so far.

"To be honest, my first half of the season was quite inconsistent. From my side I was a bit surprised I'll be staying next year," he said.

But Tost insists Red Bull's sister team was always committed to giving Tsunoda more time to develop.

Asked by Motorsport.com if there was ever a doubt that Tsunoda would get a new deal, Tost said: "For me personally no, because nowadays if you bring a rookie into Formula 1, you must give him time.

"Formula 1 is really so complex, is so difficult. Yuki so far has done a reasonably good job. He was fast, he finished in Budapest in the sixth position, and his first race he was ninth in Bahrain.

"Of course, he had some crashes, but I always say the crash period is part of the education process. How will someone find the limit if he is not allowed to crash?"

While Tost says he hopes Tsunoda's "crash period is finished now", he recognises the remaining races of the season are also likely to be difficult for the rookie driver.

"We are looking forward for the second half of the season. Although it will not be an easy one because all these young drivers don't know neither America nor Mexico, nor Sao Paolo, nor Turkey, Saudi Arabia no one knows," Tost said.

"That means there's a lot of work in front of us to bring him on a good level. But on the side of Pierre Gasly, who is for me one of the fastest drivers in Formula 1 nowadays, he can learn a lot.

"I think that he will close this gap and I'm looking forward for this driver lined up next year when we have a new car, that at least there we have constant and that's important for us."

Tost also thinks that giving Tsunoda a new contract relatively early will help him rebuild his confidence.

"Of course, this helps, because he knows he is with the team," he added. "And as I mentioned already before, the second half of the season will not become so easy as he is on race tracks which he doesn't know.

"But nevertheless, he is improving his performance, he's doing a good job and therefore, parallel to this, he will also improve his self-confidence.

"And of course, if you crash with a Formula 1 car at higher speed it's not an easy one, just to take it away. But I think that Yuki has the nature to get back his self-confidence and as more laps as he's doing as better it will be.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/tsunoda-surprised-alphatauri-handed-him-fresh-f1-contract/6663473/
DATE: 2021

The Red Bull-owned that it would be retaining the same driver line-up of Tsunoda and Pierre Gasly for 2022.

But after a rookie campaign for Tsunoda that has been blighted by a number of crashes, the young Japanese racer was aware of the risk that his bosses could lose faith in him.

Speaking ahead of the Italian Grand Prix, Tsunoda said: "To be honest, my first half of the season was quite inconsistent.

"From my side I was a bit surprised I'll be staying next year. So first of all, thanks for the team."

Pushed on why he was surprised by AlphaTauri's decision, Tsunoda singled out the high number of mistakes he had made throughout the season.

"I kept crashing and spend [cost] a lot of money for the team," he said. "I was not on a good way to end the first half of the season, especially in Hungary when I went to the wall in FP1 and ruined a whole session, almost two sessions.

"For Franz [Tost, team boss] and Helmut [Marko from Red Bull], you need a more consistent result and more driving, and also discipline in the sessions. I couldn't improve through the first half of the season, and that's why."

Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri AT02

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Tsunoda emerged from an impressive debut outing in Bahrain being hailed by F1 director of motorsport Ross Brawn as the championship's best rookie for years.

But his reputation took a battering in the wake of a number of crashes, including high-profile errors in qualifying at Imola and Paul Ricard.

Reflecting on his approach to the season, Tsunoda admitted that his confidence had suffered after his early campaign woes.

"I didn't know what was going to happen at the first F1 race and I just fully sent it almost every session," he said. "At that point, I felt very good, and I was feeling I was driving very well at that point.

"I think from Imola, especially after qualifying, I lost maybe a little bit of confidence. I kept doing mistakes every time so I reset: building confidence.

"I didn't expect it to be that difficult in F1, because even in junior categories, if I had a massive slap or went into the wall, I never lost this much confidence. So that's one main issue. That's why I'm building up and trying to have more consistent laps, and consistent sessions.

"And also at the beginning of the season, expectations were too high. And that's why I think the first race went well. But after that it was just getting confusing each session and each race week, and that made it spiral."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alphatauri-retains-gasly-and-tsunoda-for-f1-2022/6661961/
DATE: 2021

Gasly re-joined the Faenza team halfway through the 2019 season after being demoted by Red Bull.

The Frenchman gradually rebuilt his confidence and has become one of the standout performers over the past 18 months, taking his first ever win at the 2020 Italian Grand Prix and almost single-handedly keeping AlphaTauri in the battle for fifth in the 2021 constructors' championship.

Highly rated youngster Tsunoda replaced Daniil Kvyat as Gasly's teammate for 2021 after impressing Red Bull and Honda in the junior formulae.

While showing flashes of speed and potential, Tsunoda has also had his fair share of struggles and rookie mistakes, but AlphaTauri team boss , which the Faenza team has now confirmed.

“I’m pleased to announce today that we will keep both our drivers here at Scuderia AlphaTauri for the 2022 season," Tost said.

"Pierre’s development in the years has been impressive and in his time with us he managed to make it to all three steps of the podium.

"I am confident there’s more to come and this is why we are excited to have him with us for another season. Furthermore, he is using his experience in F1 to help Yuki with his development.

"Yuki has joined the team as a rookie and is continuing to learn every day, the feedback from the engineers shows that he is absorbing all the information given to him and improving."

Gasly, who had been all but certain to stay at AlphaTauri after Red Bull's main team opted to extend Sergio Perez' contract alongside Max Verstappen, believes his team can achieve "great things" after enjoying a strong 2021 season in which he has already scored 66 points, holding eighth in the championship.

“I am very happy to be moving forward with AlphaTauri for another season in Formula 1, especially after seeing the progress that we’ve made as a team since I first joined in 2017," Gasly said.

"Seeing the performance we’ve shown so far this season, I think there are great things to achieve for the rest of this season and for next year, especially with the upcoming changes to the championship in 2022.

"I’m very excited to see what we can accomplish in the new era of F1."

Tsunoda added: "It’s an incredible opportunity and I’m so thankful to the team for letting me continue to grow my experience in Formula 1 with them.

"I have a very good relationship with Pierre, I have learnt a lot from him already this year and his experience has helped me to keep developing my own skills, so it’s great to be continuing my F1 journey with him."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/tsunodas-rookie-struggles-not-out-of-the-blue-alphatauri/6652683/
DATE: 2021

Tsunoda stepped up to F1 at the start of the year after finishing third in Formula 2 last year, but has experienced an up-and-down first half-season in grand prix racing.

The Japanese driver crashed out of qualifying at Imola before spinning in the race when bound for points, and also had Saturday incidents in Azerbaijan and France.

Tsunoda acknowledged that he needed to "calm down" after his early crashes, and scored points in three of the last four races before the summer break, including his best finish to date of sixth in Hungary.

AlphaTauri F1 technical director Egginton felt that Tsunoda had been progressing "day after day" through his first season, and that to encounter moments of difficulty was nothing unusual.

"If you consider any first-time driver in F1 who's had any length of career, they have ups and downs," Egginton told Motorsport.com. "I can think back to my time in previous teams where at the start of the season with a young driver, there was a mixture of exuberance and bad luck. And before you know it, you are five races in and scratching your head and going 'what's gone on there?'.

"It's not unusual for me. It's frustrating and challenging, but it's not out of the blue.

"I think some of the added focus is on the fact that he had a good opening race. The car's competitive, and then the expectation goes up, but you're still on that same learning process.

"If you are in focus and towards the front when it happens all of a sudden the question marks and the questions seem to be a little bit more intense, but for me, I don't see anything out of the ordinary."

Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri AT02

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Tsunoda's arrival in F1 with Red Bull's junior team came after an accelerated rise through the junior motorsport ranks. The Japanese driver was racing in Formula 4 in 2018 before moving up the ladder every single year.

Egginton noted that while such a rapid progression to the pinnacle of motorsport was not unheard of, the complexity of modern-day F1 would have made Tsunoda's adaptation more of a challenge.

"Obviously he's not the first with [Felipe] Massa, [Kimi] Raikkonen, other people like this doing it," Egginton said. "What is different now of course is the complexity of Formula 1. In terms of the driver work load, it is difficult to draw parallels to other instances.

"With the intensity of what you've got to pick up, what you've got to learn and also the rapid pace of development in F1 from an engineering and car development side, it just makes it more challenging.

"It wasn't so many years ago where you could have a bit of a rough FP1 and recover it in FP2. Now if you miss track time, you are struggling to come back at it.

"If you got a younger driver in the car, it is even harder, because that track time has more value. There is so much going on, but [Yuki] is on the learning curve, it's a steep curve and he's doing a fantastic job."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alphatauri-plans-new-york-livery-launch-for-2023-f1-car/10414238/
DATE: 2022

In a post on social media on Friday,  revealed a render of an F1 car under branded covers on the famous Brooklyn Bridge.

It stated "Save the Date" with "February 11 NYC" made clear. A hashtag emphasised that this would be a livery launch rather than a reveal of its 2023 challenger.

It is likely then that  will wait until the first day of pre-season testing in Bahrain on 23 February to officially launch its new car.

mark your diaries ✏️ the AT04 will break cover in New York City 🗽🤙

AlphaTauri is coming off the back of a challenging 2022 campaign where it failed to make the progress hoped for with the new regulations.

It ended up ninth in the constructors’ championship standings, which was well adrift of sister team Red Bull which dominated both title battles.

The team’s biggest problem was a lack of consistency with its car, as some weekends  and  could fight for good points, while other weekends they were well adrift.

Gasly said midway through the year that the squad needed a big reset to make decent gains.

"To be honest with you, I don't fully have the answer why we seem to struggle more than other teams in the midfield, because I don't think we are missing something in the core of the team," he explained.

Pierre Gasly, AlphaTauri

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

"So that's why I think it needs a bit of a step back and look at the whole situation, the bigger picture, what we are doing aero-wise, which direction we took, how we decided to use the budget cap, because I know since the start of the year, we are already quite on the edge, like early on in the season."

Gasly, who is racing for  in 2023, revealed recently that AlphaTauri would be changing car concept with its new car.

"We were top of the midfield last season, this year we were back of the midfield and next season, who knows what's going to happen? Maybe AlphaTauri, and I know they're changing completely the concept of the car, will be back in the fight. It's difficult to say," he explained.

Gasly has been replaced by , who was signed by the team in the wake of his impressive F1 debut at the Italian Grand Prix, when he stood in for  at , taking a ninth-place result.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/gasly-no-guarantees-on-2023-f1-form-as-alphatauri-changes-concept/10409631/
DATE: 2022

Gasly heads to  in 2023 after a difficult final year with the Faenza team, which struggled to find form for much of the season.

The Frenchman says that his former colleagues are confident that the new AT04 will be the best car they have built to date.

He admits that with all teams developing their cars for the second season of the current rules it’s hard to predict the form book, and thus where his new team will stand against rivals.

"In this sport it's so difficult to know what's going to happen from one year to another,” he said. “We were top of the midfield last season, this year we were back of the midfield and next season, who knows what's going to happen?

“Maybe , and I know they're changing completely the concept of the car, will be back in the fight. It's difficult to say.

“I think what's important is just to work and prepare ourselves the best way possible for next year. And, and yeah, crossing my fingers that the Alpine package is going to be even stronger than it was this year."

Pierre Gasly, AlphaTauri AT03

Gasly stressed that the AlphaTauri camp is bullish about prospects of moving up the grid next year.

"Hopefully it changes for good, my position,” he said. “But at the same time, you never know. We talked about it with the [AlphaTauri] guys as well.

"They tell me that their next year's car is the best one they have ever had, and they're going to be fighting at the front!

“And it's normal, and then when you speak around the paddock everybody is making huge steps forward and God knows what's going to happen.

“I hope we're fighting at the front, maybe we're fighting for podiums, for race wins, or for top five. Or it could be a more challenging season.

“Usually teams have different designers and they're switching designers from one season to another. So there is still some carryover from year to year, but yeah, there could be some surprises. So we'll find this out at the start of next year.

“Alpine has had a fantastic season, finishing fourth in the championship, beating . So they clearly have a good package. And next target is the big three.

"So we'll try to push as hard as possible, but I'm confident there are going to be amazing results to achieve with the team."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/tsunoda-fastest-driver-will-lead-alphatauri-f1-in-2023/10408477/
DATE: 2022

Tsunoda is set for his third F1 season with the Italian team after learning the ropes alongside .

With the Frenchman departing for , Tsunoda will be joined by , who boasts an impressive CV across Formula E, Formula 2 and sportscars, but is a rookie in F1.

While Tsunoda has been with the team for two years, Red Bull driver mentor Helmut Marko still thinks 27-year-old De Vries' experience, which also include test and simulator work for ,

"Yuki is young and doesn’t have this experience and background, so [Nyck] should lead the team," Marko said when De Vries was announced as Gasly's replacement.

"We will see how it goes next year, but from the experience and the personality he has, he should be the team leader."

Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri AT03

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Tsunoda felt that he will also be handed more responsibility as AlphaTauri's longest-standing driver and dismissed that De Vries will automatically take a lead role, pointing out that whoever is the fastest driver will end up taking charge of the team.

"Well, the faster guy is going to be leading the team anyway," Tsunoda said when asked about his position within  with De Vries coming in.

"So, I don’t care, team leader or not, I'm just focused on my job, lots of things to learn and improve.

"Obviously, I'm still more responsible than this year, because Pierre is going to leave. But still, I'm having strong confidence I can achieve that. I’ll be back stronger."

Tsunoda's confidence stems from a stronger end to 2022 despite a rough year for AlphaTauri, which slipped to ninth behind Haas.

"I think overall for this season, I’ve always progressed every race pretty well, and I’m pretty happy about the shape I ended up this year," the 22-year-old Japanese explained.

"Obviously, I still need a lot of improvement, especially consistency, but at least I’m clear about the target for next year.

"Also a big thank you to Pierre. The last two years, without him I couldn’t achieve this much progress and I learned a lot of things from him. I’ll miss him, but it was a pleasure to work with him."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/abu-dhabi-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026193/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/tsunoda-highlights-bizarre-f1-safety-car-system-anomaly-in-brazil-gp/10399799/
DATE: 2022

The scenario that unfolded robbed the  driver of two positions and left him far behind the drivers with whom he should have been fighting.

Following the controversy in last year's Abu Dhabi GP, the FIA decided to automate the system that identified the lapped cars that are eligible to unlap themselves during a safety car period.

In Abu Dhabi last year, only some cars were allowed to pass leader , leaving no traffic between himself and , while still leaving cars between the Dutchman and  in third, protecting him from an attack by the  driver.

It also sped up the unlapping process sufficiently to allow time for a restart and give the Red Bull driver a chance to pass Hamilton and claim the world championship.

The miscounting of lapped cars was put down to a human error by an FIA official working alongside then-race director Michael Masi.

To avoid a repeat, F1's timing software was modified to automatically flag cars that have been lapped and are thus allowed to pass before the restart.

When the safety car came out in Brazil, the three lapped cars were the AlphaTauri of Tsunoda and the  pairing of  and .

Tsunoda was right behind leader  in the queue when AlphaTauri took the opportunity to pit the Japanese driver for new tyres.

In so doing, he actually passed Russell in the pitlane, thus technically briefly unlapping himself – before emerging onto the track in sixth place in the queue, behind Russell, the lapped Albon, Lewis Hamilton,  and Carlos Sainz. Latifi, the third-lapped driver, was just behind him.

By passing Russell in the pitlane, Tsunoda had created a situation that had not been anticipated, and according to the automated system, he was ineligible to unlap himself.

Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri AT03

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

When the 'lapped cars may now overtake' message came on the timing screens, it only mentioned the numbers of Albon and Latifi.

Tsunoda's engineer hesitated when he saw the message, saying: "You can overtake lapped… Standby, standby."

In the confusion, Tsunoda initially unlapped himself from Sainz but then stopped behind Perez, while at the same time Latifi – with whom he was battling for position - passed him and continued on past the frontrunning cars.

When he asked about passing Tsunoda was told, "Negative, no overtake," to which he replied, "What the f**k, what are we doing?" He then received the message, "Hold position Yuki, do not overtake."

He then let Sainz back past, restoring his original place in the queue. The restart thus took place with the lapped Tsunoda still separating Sainz from his pursuers, led by .

Tsunoda could thus have disrupted the races of Leclerc and others. However, wisely at the restart his engineer told him to let the quicker cars by, and he almost came to a stop on the pit straight as he allowed the whole field to pass.

As a result, Tsunoda was left stranded in last place as the only lapped car, having lost out to both Albon and Latifi. He should have beaten both of them with his fresh tyres – and he might even have been able to make up more places had he been in his rightful position at the restart.

Asked by Motorsport.com about what happened, he said: "I got told that you have to stay in line. I don't know why. Probably the FIA thinks I was fighting P5 or something like that!"

Nicholas Latifi, Williams FW44, Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri AT03

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

A clearly frustrated AlphaTauri team boss Franz Tost declined to comment on what had unfolded.

The automated system was never intended to handicap a driver in such a way, or leave a lapped car stuck in the middle of the pack in such circumstances. However, the FIA insisted that no mistakes were made.

In a statement, the governing body explained in detail what had happened: "All of the systems functioned correctly and according to the regulations. The unusual situation arose as a result of the idiosyncrasies of the specific circuit and scenario which were as follows:

"Car 22 was the first to cross SC1 following the deployment of the safety car.

"On the following lap he therefore became the first car to cross SC1 line for a second time, which would normally trigger the systems to indicate he is eligible to unlap.

"However, at this time he entered the pit lane and was able to go faster than the train of cars behind the safety car. In doing so, he unlapped himself when crossing the control line in the pit lane.

"When he rejoined the circuit, the systems correctly indicated that he was again a lap down, however as he had already unlapped himself once, he was not eligible to do so again when the safety car period was ending.

"Race control checked this was correct with F1 timing and they confirmed that only car 6 and car 23 could unlap themselves."

The FIA noted that the situation would be reviewed and thus potentially address in the future: "While this is a very unusual scenario, there were no systems or procedural errors – it is one of those unpredictable scenarios that can happen, and there are no immediate changes that need to be implemented.

"This will of course be discussed at future Sporting Advisory Committees as part of the normal review procedures."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sao-paulo-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026150/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/gasly-time-will-tell-if-tsunoda-can-lead-alphatauri-f1-team/10397044/
DATE: 2022

The Frenchman is leaving the Faenza-based squad at the end of the season to join  for 2023, and is being replaced by rookie Nyck de Vries.

But having built up a good friendship with Tsunoda during their two years together, he is hopeful that the Japanese youngster can overcome his weaknesses and prove himself a strong asset going forward.

Asked in Mexico if he felt Tsunoda has what it takes to be team leader, Gasly said: “I think only time will tell whether he's got what it takes to lead the team.

“His path to F1 was kind of fast forward. He went F4/F3/F2, and straight to F1 at quite a young age, with not so much experience. So I think only time will tell.

“But for sure he has improved massively this year. [I would] not be surprised to see him improving again next season.

“I think he knows what he needs to work on, a bit of self-control. But yeah, he knows that and I mean he's got good people around him and I think this environment is also good for him to really develop as a better driver.”

While Gasly is heading for new pastures, he reckons that he will continue to remain in touch with Tsunoda.

“He doesn't live that far from my house in Milan so I'm sure we will get some more time off season to catch up,” he explained.

Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri AT03

Photo by: Sam Bloxham /

“There is no bullshit with Yuki and that's one thing I really appreciate, everything which goes through his mind is out of his mouth in a flash of light.

“He is a very unique character, he's got a great sense of humour, no filter, which can be quite surprising at times. He's a great human being.

“I really enjoyed these last two years, also seeing him evolve within the team, also as a person I think he has developed quite a lot, and definitely someone I appreciate and I happily call a friend."

Additional reporting by Oleg Karpov

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/gasly-wants-talks-with-stewards-after-nearing-f1-race-ban-in-mexico-gp/10393268/
DATE: 2022

The point took his running 12-month total up to 10, just two short of the figure that automatically triggers a suspension for one event.

His first points were logged in the Spanish GP on May 22 – which means under the current rules he won’t lose any from his total until after next year’s Emilia Romagna GP, the seventh round of the 2023 championship.

Gasly has become increasingly frustrated with officialdom in recent weeks, having been penalised for speeding under the red flag at the Japanese GP, and for leaving too big a gap behind the safety car in Austin.

He raised the matter of the harshness of the penalty points system in Friday’s drivers’ briefing prior to the Mexican GP.

He subsequently picked up a further point in Sunday’s race after being deemed to have left the track and gained an advantage when battling with . He received a five-second penalty, as well as the penalty point.

Gasly was clearly frustrated after the Mexican race having fallen foul of the FIA yet again, and after learning about the penalty point he even took a moment to gather his thoughts before speaking to the media.

He was particularly frustrated that he wasn't told to give the position back to Stroll.

“I’m a racing driver, and if I see a gap I will go for the gap,” he said when asked about the Stroll incident by Motorsport.com.

“And if you are not happy about it, tell me to give the position back, and then I will try again. I wasn’t given any comments, so that is a shame.”

He added: “They just need to say it on the radio and that is what they have done in the past, but for some reason, not this time.”

Pierre Gasly, AlphaTauri AT03

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Asked if he had to change his approach, Gasly said he will speak to officials at the next race in Brazil.

“They [the stewards] seem to be quite harsh lately,” he said. “Last weekend half the grid was giving too much space behind the safety car, and I was penalised.

"This weekend I think it was quite tight, and I don’t know why I wasn’t really given a message to give the position back.

“At the end of the day I try my best inside the car, and the last thing I want is to get stupid penalty points and lose race time.

"Apparently at the moment they are not happy with what I’m doing, so I will have a discussion to understand exactly what I have got to change.”

Earlier in the weekend Gasly indicated that the discussion he initiated in Friday’s drivers’ briefing about penalties had been a positive one, even suggesting that the points system may be adjusted by the FIA – possibly in time to save him from a race ban in 2023.

“It was not just the penalty points, because obviously I'm quite close to being banned for a race,” he said when asked by Motorsport.com about the briefing debate.

“But in my opinion, I don't feel like I've been that dangerous over the last 12 months, and it would be a shame to get a race ban for slowing down a bit too much behind the safety car and a couple of track limits this year.

“So I think they're working on it and probably for next year, there are going to be changes. That's good to hear.”

Spain: Causing a collision (Lance Stroll) – 2 pointsAustria: Causing a collision () – 2 pointsAustria: Leaving the track without justification multiple times – 1 pointJapan: Speeding under red flag conditions – 2 pointsUSA: Car fell more than 10 lengths behind the safety car – 2 pointsMexico: Leaving the track and gaining an advantage (Lance Stroll) – 1 point

On 10 October, Gasly lost two penalty points earned for causing a collision with  at the 2021 Turkish GP. This year he also received two reprimands for bollard offences in Canada.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mexico-city-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026105/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/united-states-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026062/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/pierre-gasly-good-steps-fia-suzuka-f1-crane-report/10387933/
DATE: 2022

, after happening across the recovery vehicle when trying to catch the safety car queue on the second lap following a pitstop.

Following the race, he called the use of the crane disrespectful to the memory of his friend , who died as a result of injuries received after a collision with a crane at the 2014 Japanese GP.

Like other drivers, Gasly subsequently spoke to FIA president Mohammed Ben Sulayem about what had happened.

The FIA report contains a series of recommendations essentially urging extra caution with the use of recovery vehicles in the future, and for example ensuring that teams and drivers are notified of their use by race control. The report also confirmed that

It also detailed Gasly’s speeding offence, noting that he “drove in a reckless manner by not respecting the flags, thereby ignoring the basic safety rules”. However, the Frenchman preferred to focus on the bigger picture and the positive changes.

“I was most interested by what they will put in place for the future,” said Gasly when asked by Motorsport.com about the report. “That's what I discussed with Mohammed after the race in Suzuka, that whatever happened there happened.

“And most important is just moving forward, that we make sure everybody is safe, whether it's in F1 or in the lower categories.

“And that's what they are they are working on. I think what they put in place is clearly good steps forward. I know we're going to discuss it at the drivers' briefing, and anything more we could do will be welcome.

“But I’m glad to see they worked on this matter very quickly, and came up with solutions already the race straight after that happened.”

Pierre Gasly, Scuderia AlphaTauri

Photo by: Carl Bingham /

During the red flag delay after the first start Gasly went to see race director Eduardo Freitas to ask about the crane, and he was left furious when the Portuguese official told him it was “normal”.

Gasly confirmed that he has subsequently spoken again to Freitas, but he downplayed any personal disagreement: “His side of the story, my side of the story, as I've said, it doesn't matter who's right or wrong.

“At the end of the day, we are risking our life, and again we just want to be as safe as possible. There are always going to be risks driving these cars in these conditions at such speeds, but as long as we can minimise the risk.

“Tracks are homologated without cranes and tractors on track. They are safe in these conditions. The moment you put external stuff on it, then it's a very different story.

“I think they understood, and it was clear on both sides. And I'm pleased with the solutions they are putting in place.”

Gasly stressed how upset he was at the time of the incident: "It was a serious matter. It's clearly something that should have never happened, but unfortunately it happened.

“There weren't any consequences, except let's say maybe mentally, I was kind of shocked with what's happened, and for the people that kind of remembered the loss of Jules.

“There weren't any tragic consequences. But the most important thing is just to have myself and all my colleagues and all the people in motorsports safer in the future. And that's what they're planning.”

When asked if measures such as race control notifying teams about recovery vehicles now seem obvious, he said: “Yeah, but often in life you find solutions once you face incidents or mistakes. And even it's kind of looks obvious, nobody in that paddock thought about it earlier.”

Gasly didn’t want to challenge the criticism about speeding in the report: “I don't want to do any polemic on that side. As I've said, I followed my delta.

“And I got penalised for overspeeding on the back straight, which was after the incident. And I don't want to do any polemic with that. And that's not even what matters in this report.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/tsunoda-i-need-to-iron-out-mistakes-to-lead-alphatauri-f1-team/10386382/
DATE: 2022

Tsunoda will enter 2023 as the most experienced F1 driver at  after long-serving teammate  announced his exit for  over the Japanese Grand Prix weekend.

Gasly will be replaced by Nyck de Vries, who has won titles in Formula 2 and Formula E, and made his F1 debut at Monza in September as a late stand-in for  at .

Tsunoda has shown flashes of brilliance during his time with AlphaTauri and made decent progress through his second season in 2022, but has also struggled for consistency at points.

The Japanese driver has been open about his need to learn from Gasly, and said at Suzuka he thought there were still "lots of things" he needed to pick up from his outgoing teammate in their final races together at AlphaTauri.

"For sure the kind of mistakes I did in Singapore, I have to definitely reduce, and other things, for example, penalties," said Tsunoda.

"Those things are unnecessary. So those things, definitely I have to improve but at the same time, the pace, especially one lap, I'm quite happy and having good progress so far.

"So, I'll just keep like this momentum until the next year."

Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri AT03

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

AlphaTauri F1 boss Franz Tost has previously spoken about the need for Tsunoda to get his emotions under control, having seen his driver land a grid penalty at Monza for racking up too many reprimands - a first since the rule was introduced.

Tsunoda has failed to score any point since the Spanish Grand Prix back in May, but AlphaTauri has struggled to keep pace with the other midfield teams through that period, slipping to ninth in the constructors' championship.

Tsunoda said he was eager to regain a "good rhythm, like I had in the first half of the season" through the closing races in order to go into the winter on a high.

"This will be probably a good opportunity to back into the rhythm," he added.

"But I think still learning, [there are] lots of things, lots of things to learn, but I seem to have quite good confidence to do that."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-reserve-drivers-all-teams-backup-2023/10437681/
DATE: 2023

Formula 1 teams are well underway preparing for the forthcoming 2025 campaign, which will consist of 24 grands prix beginning in Melbourne on the 14-16 March.

The grid is set and all but two teams -  and Aston Martin - have changed their driver line-up, meaning this year will have a new look.

But it is not just the full-time competitors that play a crucial role, as a team’s back-up driver does as well.

Reserve drivers act on standby during grand prix weekends and may contest one should a team’s regular driver be unable to. This happened at the 2024 Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, for example, as .

F1 teams also employ simulator drivers, who test changes made to the car so that everybody can gain a greater understanding of the machine.

So, who are the drivers supporting their team behind the scenes for 2025?

Liam Lawson served as Red Bull’s reserve driver at the start of the 2024 season, but then .

. This means Red Bull is currently without an official reserve driver, though Lawson’s former team-mate Yuki Tsunoda is expected to step into the role.

Meanwhile, Rudy van Buren will continue as Red Bull’s simulator test and development driver after joining in 2023.

Rudy van Buren, Red Bull F1 Simulator Test and Development Driver

Photo: Red Bull Racing

, but in a reserve driver capacity having been ’s team-mate from 2017 to 2021. The 10-time grand prix winner left for  - now  - having been replaced by George Russell, who was previously at  after graduating to F1 as a Mercedes junior.

But the Swiss outfit opted for an all-new line-up this year ahead of its Audi takeover in 2026, leaving Bottas without a drive. So, in December 2024 Mercedes announced that the Finn was back with the Silver Arrows replacing former reserve Mick Schumacher, who is part of Alpine's Hypercar programme.

Sharing the role with Bottas is the 2023 F2 championship runner-up Frederik Vesti, who started the position last year having become a Mercedes junior in 2021.

, having been part of its academy between 2015 and 2018. He initially left to become Renault’s development driver in 2019 before making his F1 debut with Alfa Romeo in 2022 but, like Bottas, he was dropped by the Hinwil-based outfit for this year.

He will work alongside , who was Zhou's predecessor at Alfa Romeo. The Italian became Ferrari’s reserve driver in 2022 and Giovinazzi also competes for the historic brand in the World Endurance Championship, where he won the 2023 Le Mans 24 Hours.

Regarding Ferrari’s development drivers, that includes Arthur Leclerc who joined in 2024. He is the younger brother of full-time Ferrari driver  and is joined by  and Davide Rigon.

Zhou Guanyu, Ferrari reserve driver

McLaren is yet to announce who its reserve drivers for 2025 are, with previous incumbent . But Arrow McLaren IndyCar driver Pato O’Ward has previously contested F1 practice sessions for the Woking-based team, so it is likely he will continue his commitments.

McLaren also employs , who spends a lot of time in the team’s simulator where he works closely with the engineers and regular drivers.

Aston Martin has retained Felipe Drugovich and  as its reserve drivers for 2025. Previously the team was able to call on the reserves of engine partner Mercedes in case of an emergency but in more recent years, Aston Martin has introduced its own reserve drivers.

While Vandoorne joined from Mercedes in November 2022, Drugovich has graduated from the Aston Martin driver development programme and the 2022 F2 champion has worked with the squad since 2023.

Felipe Drugovich, Aston Martin F1 Team

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Jack Doohan will contest his first, full campaign in F1 this year after serving as Alpine’s reserve driver in 2024 before replacing  at the Abu Dhabi season finale.

As a result, Alpine has announced Paul Aron, Ryo Hirakawa and Franco Colapinto as its reserve drivers for 2025.

Aron had a stellar F2 campaign last year, finishing third to champion Gabriel Bortoleto and Isack Hadjar, while Hirakawa has joined from McLaren where he held a similar role.

There is more hype around Colapinto though, who made his - relatively unexpected - F1 debut in Monza 2024 having replaced Logan Sargeant at . He impressed immediately finishing 12th before taking points at his second grand prix in Azerbaijan with eighth.

But Williams had already announced  as ’s team-mate for 2025, so there was no full-time seat for Colapinto. As a result, , where a spot may soon open up for the young Argentine given Doohan’s unsecure future.

Williams does not currently employ its own reserve driver, as previous incumbent Colapinto has left for the same role at Alpine after impressing for the British squad in his nine-round stint last year.

Jamie Chadwick, meanwhile, serves as its development driver after joining Williams in 2019 which is the year she clinched her first of three W Series titles.

Jamie Chadwick, Williams

Hadjar served as Racing Bull’s reserve driver last year, when it was known as . But following Lawson’s promotion, Hadjar will partner Tsunoda for his rookie season leaving Racing Bulls currently without an official reserve driver.

Considering its close ties with Red Bull though, the Faenza-based squad can call on whomever is in the Red Bull pool.

Zane Maloney and Theo Pourchaire have left the Sauber set-up since acting as reserve drivers last year. The Swiss outfit is yet to confirm who will support its all-new line-up of  and Bortoleto before the squad morphs into the Audi works team in 2026.

Haas is also yet to announce its reserve driver for 2025 having promoted previous incumbent Bearman to a full-time seat at the American squad. One option could be Pietro Fittipaldi though, as the grandson of double world champion Emerson joined the team in 2019 and in that time has started two races due to ’s crash at the 2020 Bahrain Grand Prix.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-tech-review-alphatauri-big-plans-ahead/10561527/
DATE: 2023

Let’s take a look at some of the AT04’s finer details and how it was developed throughout the course of 2023…

AlphaTauri AT04 new side detail

kicked off what would become one of the most intense development cycles on the grid with a substantial package of parts at the Australian Grand Prix, which notably included a change to the forward section of its floor, with all of the fences fettled to take advantage of the surrounding alterations.

AlphaTauri AT04 rear detail

The team had already introduced a new, lower downforce, rear wing option at the Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, to improve straightline speed.

AlphaTauri AT04 detail

Another great image from Jeddah, which shows the power unit ancillaries’ installation, with a double feed from the airbox delivering cool air to the saddle cooler and power unit below. We’re also able to see the internal sidepod baffle mounted atop the radiator housed within the right-hand side of the car.

AlphaTauri AT04 technical detail

A close up of the forward section of the edge wing, which is not only rolled up into a scroll it has also been divided by three strakes to help disseminate the required aerodynamic effect.

AlphaTauri AT04 technical detail

An overview of the AT04’s rear end at the Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, which shows off the beam wing, with an upper element that runs under the exhaust and over the crash structure.

AlphaTauri AT04 technical detail

A close up of the diffuser sidewall on the AT04, with a squared-off mouse hole utilised in the forward portion.

AlphaTauri AT04 technical detail

Another look inside the AT04’s sidepod, which shows the layout of their radiators, the upper deflector panel and the wedge-shaped oil tank.

Photo by: Filip Cleeren

AlphaTauri AT04 technical detail

AlphaTauri added a swage line to the lower half of the endplate at the Spanish Grand Prix, in order to tie-in the various airflow structures that surround it.

AlphaTauri AT04 technical detail

An overview of the AT04 as it was prepared for action allows us to see both the front and rear brake assemblies without the outer drums in place. Both use a fairing to surround the brake disc, isolating it from the space inside the drum to help improve temperature control.

AlphaTauri AT04 rear detail

AlphaTauri opted for a lower downforce rear wing variant for the Belgian Grand Prix

AlphaTauri AT04 rear detail

In this image of the AT04 from the Dutch Grand Prix we’re able to see the stepped transition used by the team in the diffuser boat tail section.

AlphaTauri AT04 technical detail

A close up of the rear wing tip section, which employs the open-ended solution seen on other cars to help control the vortex formed at the wing tip.

AlphaTauri AT04 technical detail

The AT04 with a low downforce rear wing solution for the Italian Grand Prix, which is paired to a bi-plane style beam wing element, with a backed-off element mounted further forward and just below the exhaust, whilst the lower element is mounted just above the diffuser.

Photo by: Filip Cleeren

AlphaTauri AT04 technical detail

Comparatively, here’s the usual layout at the Japanese Grand Prix with the elements stacked in series around the exhaust tip.

Photo by: Filip Cleeren

AlphaTauri AT04 technical detail

A close up of the AT04’s wraparound wing mirror assembly, with the L-shaped halo winglet also visible in the background.

AlphaTauri AT04 detail

The AT04’s edge wing at the Qatar Grand Prix, with the rear section twisted in the opposite direction to the scrolled forward section.

AlphaTauri AT04 detail

The open-ended tip section solution combined with the higher downforce rear wing assembly at the Qatar Grand Prix.

AlphaTauri AT04 technical detail

A good angle to see how the open-ended tip section solution exposes the mainplane flap and endplate juncture and the rear cutout.

AlphaTauri AT04 technical detail

A revised edge wing design was deployed at the United States GP, with the forward scroll section given an increased camber, whilst the section aft of the strakes was also increased in length.

AlphaTauri AT04 side detail

The update package introduced at COTA was an extensive one, with changes made to the entire floor, edge wing, floor fences, engine cover, rear brake duct winglets and changes to the lower chassis surface to help better integrate it with the suspension fairings.

AlphaTauri AT04 sidepods detail

The team would later create a hybrid floor package at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, taking design elements from their old arrangement and the one introduced at COTA.

Here’s the list of the components that AlphaTauri listed as having changed in the car presentation document prior to each race.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mekies-gardening-leave-avoided-intensity-of-in-season-f1-team-switch/10554890/
DATE: 2023

Mekies will officially join the soon-to-be-renamed Faenza outfit on January 1. He will work alongside CEO Peter Bayer in a two-man arrangement as former boss Franz Tost heads for retirement.

Former  sporting director Mekies remains a Maranello employee until the end of this month, but he has been on gardening leave and has not worked since the summer break.

He believes that the time off has actually been beneficial as it has allowed him to gather his thoughts before rejoining the team that he previously worked for as an engineer in its Minardi and Toro Rosso days.

“At the very beginning, when I realised I had to wait all these months, it was a bit frustrating,” he said at Sunday’s . “Because you want to jump straight away and think how you can contribute and support.

“But the truth is if you have gone from a job to another straight away, you will probably be taken straight away by the intensity of the racing calendar, by the day-to-day decisions that you have to make.

“So it's been actually quite a great luck to have to step back, to have to look perhaps at the bigger picture, to have a chance to think on how you want to do a lot of things. It could be all about finding great people there.

"It's really what is our sport now. It's the people, it's the people-to-people. And that's very much what I'm looking forward to start with again.

“I'm very, very fortunate to come from an incredible racing family and going to another incredible racing family. So very, very grateful.”

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri AT04, Carlos Sainz, Ferrari SF-23

The departing Tost said in Abu Dhabi that he’s confident that the team he ran for 18 years is in good hands.

“First of all, Peter is with us since June and I think that we are working together very closely,” said the Austrian.

“He understands the team now much better, and he has got a lot of experience. He knows F1.

“And Laurent Mekies anyway was working with us, he knows the team from the past and I think that these two people are absolutely the right people to take over the team.

“And I expect that they will bring the team to another level because both of them have a lot of experience. Both of them know F1, and I'm convinced that they will do a very good job.”

Meanwhile ’s new name is set to be revealed next week when the official 2024 F1 entry list is released by the FIA.

“It will be for AlphaTauri to announce whatever name change they choose,” said Christian Horner, boss of sister team Red Bull.

“There’s a lot of speculation about naming and so on and of course, you’ve got company names, you’ve got entrant names that pay deference to partners as well.

“I’m sure, when the timing is right, they’ll announce what their rebrand is going to be for next year which will be as Franz’s chapter comes to a close. Peter and Laurent Mekies have ambitious plans for the team as they go forward.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/tsunoda-pays-tribute-to-biggest-supporter-tost-after-alphatauri-f1-exit/10554808/
DATE: 2023

Tost has spent 18 years at the helm of the Faenza outfit formerly known as Toro Rosso. In its role as a Red Bull junior team, Tost has notably presided over , , ,  and .

He was also a big backer of Tsunoda, who in 2024 will contest his fourth season for the team. The current  racer reckons Tost’s “backup” was key to him remaining on the right path, saying: “Obviously, without Franz, I'm not here [in F1]. He is definitely giving me a lot of advice every race.

“Even in the bad moments, good moments, we share with each other the happiness or sadness. He is always the biggest supporter in the team.

“He always trusts my talent, my speed, everything. Even in the first half of the season when I was struggling in my first year, still he was believing that I can do it. Without that kind of good backup, I wouldn't have been able to develop as much as a driver.

“Probably I would rush much more and just lost the way I should have gone. How he treated in that time was really helpful.”

Photo by: Steven Tee /

Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri AT04

When there were periods of uncertainty regarding Tsunoda’s F1 future, Tost waded in to say that an F1 driver needs three seasons to prove they can compete at the top level.

Asked if this was a fair timeline, Tsunoda replied: “First year, there was multiple reasons, but I wasn’t able to really show a performance in the first half of the season especially.

“But from last year, I started to get better and my confidence getting better. Now I am just really focusing more to be complete driver, not just be fast.

“Also giving feedback for development or how mature you can be in a difficult situation, those are my targets.

“Every year I am able to find my weakness, which is good thing and I have been just working on that.”

During Tost’s tenure, the team won the 2008 (Vettel) and 2020 () Italian Grands Prix.

But AlphaTauri came unstuck upon the arrival of the ground-effects regulations in 2022, falling from sixth to ninth in the constructors’ championship. It was then bottom throughout the middle part of this season before an aggressive string of upgrades paved the way for a late climb to eighth place.

Tost wrung out the changes to the aerodynamic department to arrest the dip but after the death of Red Bull co-owner Dietrich Mateschitz last year and a change of senior management, the long-serving boss’s exit was announced in late April. His replacement is  sporting director Laurent Mekies.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ricciardo-reborn-and-re-energised-after-f1-return/10550807/
DATE: 2023

After concluding his  contract a year early at the end of last season, Ricciardo joined the Red Bull camp as a test and reserve driver for 2023, and his opportunity to race came after the summer break when  dropped .

The Australian’s return was interrupted by the hand injury he suffered in a crash in practice at Zandvoort that ultimately cost him five races, but his strong performance in Mexico City – where he qualified fourth and finished seventh – indicated a return to form.

Asked if the injury had in effect spoiled an otherwise ideal scenario around his return, Ricciardo said: "Obviously, I wish this never happened, just because it was uncomfortable and painful and whatever. But now that it's obviously done, I still look back on this year as a positive. Because sitting here a year ago, I was like, 'could this be my last race?'

“I don't exaggerate when I say that. I really didn't know. I honestly thought it was 50-50. So, to have the year I've had and forget the hand, I just kind of feel a little bit maybe reborn again, is kind of the right word. I feel just re-energised.

“And I've definitely got a second wind. If I then speak of the hand, for this not to feel like a setback probably speaks volumes. I could see how maybe some people would see that lame accident with high consequences, 'maybe Daniel should just give it up. 'That's probably just a sign that he should just call it a day'.

"But I never thought that. I never felt like that. So yeah, that was maybe even more power to the decision of kind of trying to kick some butt."

Photo by: Erik Junius

Daniel Ricciardo, AlphaTauri AT04

Ricciardo says he’s realised that he can still have fun even if he’s not in a car that can challenge for wins.

“My enjoyment in the sport should not be results-based in terms of yes, I'll know what's a good lap or what's a good race, and that will help me sleep at night,” he said. “It doesn't just need to be winning every time.

“And I think I came to the kind of place where I was totally happy and comfortable at that time driving for the 10th-place team on the grid, where last year when I said I don't want to jump back into a car if it's fighting at the back, it didn't make sense for me. But slowly it started to make more and more sense."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/horner-no-pink-mercedes-risk-red-bull-alphatauri-f1-collaboration/10553912/
DATE: 2023

As part of a revamp that Horner has helped provide input to, a relaunched and renamed  team in 2024 will forge closer ties with its sister team – and take more Red Bull parts than it has done recently.

But the new closer alliance has raised eyebrows in the paddock amid concerns that the collaboration will deliver both teams an advantage – as they can share development ideas and shortcut solutions.

Rival teams have already voiced private worries about the matter and urged the FIA to take a very close look at what is happening to ensure that nothing unfair is going on.

But Horner insists that nothing untoward is taking place, and that the relationship between Red Bull and AlphaTauri will be nothing like that between  and Racing Point that produced the infamous 'Pink Mercedes' controversy in 2020.

Back then, Racing Point, which was using the Mercedes wind tunnel, produced an RP20 that bore a striking resemblance to the Mercedes 2019 car.

Rival teams eventually protested the design, and Racing Point was found guilty of breaching IP rules with its rear brake ducts, being fined 400,000 euro and losing 15 constructors' championship points.

Horner says what his team is doing with AlphaTauri is a world away from what happened in the past.

Photo by: Charles Coates /

Valtteri Bottas, Mercedes F1 W11, Lance Stroll, Racing Point RP20

"We're an awfully long way from a 'Pink Mercedes'," he said. "There are some transferable components that are clearly listed within the regulations that you're allowed to supply and that's what they get.

"When you look at the car, there are quite fundamental differences between that car and a  car. And arguably, there are other cars on the grid which are far closer in concept than an AlphaTauri is.

"You've only got to look at an Aston Martin or even a . If you look around the rear suspension of a McLaren, it's very close in concept to that of our own."

Horner said that AlphaTauri's performance on track was ultimately in its own hands, as how it developed from here would be decided at its Faenza factory.

"It's down to the quality of people that will be in the team," he said. "Of course, there are certain components that we can supply, as is the case with Mercedes and  that supply current grand prix teams with gearboxes, suspension and simulation tools and wind tunnel.

"And that is an identical relationship between the companies.

"Of course, it is then down to them how they use those tools. You can see that McLaren have used those tools, in certain respects, better than their supplier has done in half of the year.

"It's really down to them how they make use of what they're permitted within the regulations."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alphatauri-f1-low-speed-prowess-2024-car/10553663/
DATE: 2023

The Anglo-Italian squad grabbed attention with its raft of steady floor upgrades in recent months, that according to  team boss Andrea Stella had made the AT04 the best car in low-speed corners by the season finale in Abu Dhabi.

It allowed the team to have a late go at  for seventh in the constructors' championship, but from sixth on the grid a one-stop gamble for  didn't pay off as he dropped to eighth, which left  three points adrift.

While its aggressive approach to introducing upgrades has given the team a performance boost towards the latter third of the season, it has also exaggerated its straight-line weakness.

"Some of the focus has been on the slow speed corners," said the team's head of trackside engineering Jonathan Eddolls. "It was a bit of a weakness.

"I would say the area we still need to address for next year is the aerodynamic efficiency. Because yes, we are quite competitive in the slow speed corners. But we've got the downside, we're one of the slowest cars on the straights.

"We make the time in the corners, but then we're losing on the straights. I think we need to reintegrate, redress the balance of load in the corners and aerodynamic efficiency. But that's being worked on for next year."

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri AT04

When put to him that AlphaTauri's massive floor gains piqued interest from rival teams up and down the paddock, Eddolls said it was an area in which the team had missed its targets, so there was much more time to be gained once it had found the right development direction.

"We started the season a long way off, on the backfoot, so there was plenty to find," he said.

"But I think it's fair to say that the factory, Bicester, aerodynamics and Faenza have done a really good job at identifying the weaknesses of that car, and then working hard to try to address those.

"Part of the problem is understanding the weaknesses and then I think they did a very good job of figuring that out. We've been updating the car all year, but to get points, obviously, you've got so many cars in front, it's taken quite a while to get to this stage.

"Firstly, you change the targets, then you have to develop around those targets, then you find parts, then you've got to make the parts, then you bring them to the track. So it's only from Singapore, since the second part of the season that really we've been seeing the fruits from that."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/whats-behind-the-alphatauri-floor-that-has-upset-f1-rivals/10553398/
DATE: 2023

But the extent of its progress got some of its rivals’ backs up, amid concerns that its ever-closer relationship with sister team Red Bull could be helping both teams gain an unfair advantage.

While there are no suggestions the Red Bull squads are doing anything against the regulations, it is clear teams can benefit from closer collaboration when it comes to optimising development paths.

That is why the new  floor that arrived in Abu Dhabi piqued the interest of rivals, with some suggesting that it offered a clue not only to the development direction of the Faenza-based squad in 2024 but maybe also Red Bull itself.

AlphaTauri AT04 sidepods detail

The floor changes made were in some ways a rollback on a previous specification that AlphaTauri used during the course of the season, but it also applied some of what it learnt from the outgoing specification too.

As is usually the case with floor developments, we are unable to see the full extent of the modifications that have been made as it’s the underside of the car that benefits the most.

So, without an instance where the car has to be recovered, or there is a slip up by the mechanics that reveals it, we don’t get to see what’s going on beneath the car.

Nonetheless we do know changes here will have an impact, as the team noted the following in the car presentation documentation: “The mid floor and 'canoe' surfaces local to the plank have also been extensively modified to enable greater local load generation from that part of the floor”.

Even without seeing what’s transpired with the underfloor directly, we can still garner some insight into those changes by paying attention to the new architecture topside.

For example, the way in which the lower SIPS are enclosed within the floor has been altered, resulting in a gentler blister on the floor’s surface that no longer joins to the outer floor fence’s ramped sidewall.

Consequently, the main body of the floor is once again disconnected from the ramped section of the floor just aft of the outer floor fence. This is a structure which has also been reprofiled (yellow dotted line, below), as has the edge wing downstream.

The forward, more upwardly scrolled section of the edge wing was returned to the overlapping tongue-style arrangement last used in Qatar (see inset), rather than featuring a more pronounced and squared-off profile, like the one introduced at the United States Grand Prix.

AlphaTauri AT04 floor comparison (arrows & highlights)

These changes, along with a reduction in the camber of the element has resulted in the strakes being modified too.

Meanwhile, the section aft of the strakes has been elongated, when compared with the Qatar spec item, taking a cue instead from the COTA spec design (lower inset), before the surface twists back inwards to create the tail section.

There’s also a reshuffling of the floor fences at the leading edge of the floor, with the team adding a splitter winglet (red arrow) to help accomplish that goal and allow one of the fences to be moved from a more inboard location, to one much closer to the outer fences.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/how-alphatauris-crazy-upgrade-push-helped-tsunoda-deliver-unthinkable-feat/10552550/
DATE: 2023

Helped by floor updates to the AT04, Tsunoda qualified sixth at the Yas Marina track, and he held onto the position in the early laps, rising up the order as the frontrunners pitted.

When  came in, Tsunoda took over the lead for five laps, before making his late first and only stop.

He was only the second Japanese driver to lead a grand prix after Takuma Sato enjoyed a brief spell in front at the Nurburgring in 2004.

The subplot was that sixth would have been enough to relieve  of P7 in the constructors' world championship on team principal Franz Tost's last day in charge.

However, Tsunoda slipped behind  and  and ultimately claimed eighth, which was not quite enough.

Tsunoda added that such a scenario couldn't even have been thought about earlier in the season when the team was struggling for form.

"I gave it everything," he said when asked by Motorsport.com about just missing out. "To be honest, I didn't know I was leading the pack.

"So I'm quite surprised about it. And looking back, during the first half of the season, we never thought about it, that we'd be leading the pack.

"So a massive privilege, and without the team effort, we couldn't achieve this much. The amount they pushed this year, almost every race we had upgrades, it was crazy. They deserve it.

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

Franz Tost, Team Principal, Scuderia AlphaTauri, Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri

"And also I wasn't able to give probably the biggest gift to Franz, but at least hopefully, I gave it all. And I showed at least my performance as a kind of appreciation for him."

With tyre degradation higher than expected across the early phases of the weekend, most drivers ran a two-stop plan, with Tsunoda's  being the notable exception.

"It was the plan, but we knew that it was going to be difficult," he admitted. "We were kind of listening to what the tyres were saying.

"And they held on quite well in the first stint, so that helps. And I think that was a that was a key moment.

"In the end what we did on the strategy itself was okay. Even if I did exactly the same strategy as the top teams I don't know if we are able to finish P6 anyway. So I think we don't have regrets."

Tsunoda stressed that the team's late-season form bodes well for 2024 when the team will be rebranded and have a new boss in Laurent Mekies.

"I think what we did in Abu Dhabi with upgrades is kind of the philosophy for also next year as well," he said. "And if these upgrades work, it's a good sign for next year as well. So at least we've got some positives, and also good data as well.

"So we keep on continuing what we've done. Obviously not enough yet. But I know lots of things have to change next year. And hopefully, that will give us a step forward."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alphatauri-reveals-extent-of-floor-changes-for-f1s-abu-dhabi-gp/10550818/
DATE: 2023

,  prepared a significant upgrade to the AT04's floor for the 2023 season finale, which was intended as a research and development item for the 2024 car but is also expected to yield a "few tenths" in a last-ditch fight with  for P7 in the constructors' championship.

In the FIA's tech document released on Friday morning, AlphaTauri says it has reworked the main floor body as well as its edges and fences "to improve the local load generation of the forward floor".

It explained: "The keel area above the t-tray also now features a vane that generates additional local load. The mid floor and 'canoe' surfaces local to the plank have also been extensively modified to enable greater local load generation from that part of the floor.

"The spanwise position and spacing of the fences has also changed significantly from the previous floor to better optimise their relative loading. The area behind the outermost fence on the upper surface has also changed to improve the quality of air flow onto the floor edge wing."

Photo by: Filip Cleeren

AlphaTauri AT04 floor

The forward part of the floor edge wing has been reduced in camber to improve flow quality to the rear, while the aft part has been increased in chord to increase local load generation.

Aston Martin has brought a new rear wing which features modifications to the upper wing, beam wing and the endplate.

"The upper rear wing assembly has revised sections, a change in front view and a different treatment of the tip of the wing. There are two options of flap," the Silverstone team explained.

The beam wing has been tweaked to work in conjunction with the main wing's changes, while the endplate is meant to be more efficient and work at different drag ranges.

is the third and last team to introduce new items to F1's season finale, having brought a new front wing with a redesigned main plane, re-profiled flaps. The new wing is meant to improve aerodynamic efficiency of the whole car, which has been a weakness for the Hinwil squad.

Photo by: Filip Cleeren

AlphaTauri AT04 technical detail

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alphatauri-f1-major-joker-upgrade-abu-dhabi/10550215/
DATE: 2023

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

Peter Bayer, CEO of Scuderia AlphaTauri

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Daniel Ricciardo, AlphaTauri AT04

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alphatauri-ready-to-announce-new-f1-name-for-2024-as-us-sponsors-join/10549855/
DATE: 2023

Formerly known as Toro Rosso, the organisation was rebranded in honour of Red Bull-owned clothing company  in 2020, but with that deal set to end, it has been searching for a new name for a complete relaunch in 2024.

Rather than be committed to the branding of a sponsor as is currently the case, the team wants to return to having a generic name along the lines of Toro Rosso, with 'Racing Bulls' one option that has been rumoured.

Over the Las Vegas GP weekend, team CEO Peter Bayer and his Faenza colleagues finalised plans for how to also incorporate the names of two new US-based sponsors into the official team title, and how and when the new look will be launched, with the publication of the official FIA entry list early next month a key deadline.

“The identity will be generic,” Bayer told Motorsport.com. “The identity is what Toro Rosso would have been, and it’s moving closer to the Red Bull family again. But then it will appear with the naming rights partners.

"We will change the company name, we will change identity, logo, everything, a complete relaunch, complete rebrand.

"The name of the team, the identity, has been decided by the shareholders. And I need to carry it with me without being able to share, which is very difficult!”

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Daniel Ricciardo, AlphaTauri AT04

Bayer said that the team’s profile in the United States, clearly helped by the presence of Drive to Survive star , has played an important role in attracting new backing.

“We're on a good trajectory,” he said. “And because we have such good traction in the US at the moment, we found these two companies who like each other.

"We had a very, very good meeting with these two big new partners. And they understood each other really well. They sort of mingled immediately.

“We talked about when do we announce it? What do we do? And we said look, this is what usually happens, and we have the FIA entry form and we have the livery presentation. And then they had ideas.

“They started brainstorming so much that I got scared, actually! They have a couple of very big ideas. They're thinking big, bigger than we would probably have dared to think.”

The  team will also undergo an identity change next year as the Hinwil outfit’s deal with the Italian manufacturer comes to an end.

With the move to full Audi branding coming in 2026, the Sauber identity is expected to return next year, with current title sponsor Stake also likely to be incorporated into the team name.

Asked by Motorsport.com when confirmation might come, team principal Alessandro Alunni Bravi said: "Five minutes after the FIA publishes the entry list! All our statements were ready from November 2.

“Of course, we don't want to anticipate anything, but we are ready to announce the team name and the chassis name.

"We have existing partners of course, and we try to also expand with our partners the perimeter of the sponsorship deals.

“I think that we found a good way to do this, but there will be not just one title partner next year. I think there will be surprises, especially for the chassis name.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-las-vegas-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp1/1123648/
DATE: 2024

And with that, it is time to head off for a break. We'll be back at 5:45am GMT ahead of FP2 but for now, here is the full session report from the first outing of the weekend. As ever, thanks for your company!

Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes F1 W15

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

It should be noted, even Hamilton's session best time was roughly three seconds off the pole lap of 12 months ago, highlighting the evolution that is yet to come in the following sessions.

By the time FP1 came to a close, both the air and track temperatures had dropped by three degrees. This fall is expected to continue into FP2, which takes place at a similar time to both qualifying and the race.

"That was the first session we've had since Toto Wolff's comments on Hamilton's "shelf-life" emerged - the Mercedes boss has since moved to explain what he meant - but for the seven-time world champion that was a response that will have had him smiling under his helmet, while his face flashed up the Vegas night as it shone from the Sphere"

"I know it was only first practice, but that was another unimpressive run for Sergio Perez. His best time is only good enough for 10th place on the time sheets. Time is running out for him to prove he deserves to retain his seat at Red Bull next year. The other aspect is that Red Bull need him to start delivering points if they are to claw back their way into contention to win the constructors' championship."

Completing practice starts on the grid, Verstappen has massively overshot the grid box. Were that to happen in the race, he would be in hot water for that one.

Hamilton's final lap was 0.396s up on Russell. He has 0.953s over Norris in third and all other drivers are over a second back.

And Hamilton moves to the top with a 1m35.001s. With no one else on a hot lap, he will exit the car as the fastest man in the session.

Hamilton is into the final sector of his final effort, as he goes purple in sector one.

The chequered flag flies and Sainz is the first driver to take it.

"So far, so good for the new FIA race director, Rui Marques. Not major incidents like we saw last year so he has been able to easy himself into the big seat left vacant by Niels Wittich, who left the role after the Sao Paulo Grand Prix. We have Toto Wolff in the press conference later, so it will be good to get his thoughts on the shock departure and what he makes of Marques."

Hamilton goes top, but Russell is faster still with a third consecutive flying lap, moving to a 1m35.397s.

And we're about to see what Hamilton can do with soft, as he begins his first timed effort on the compound.

As the click ticks below five minutes, Russell returns Mercedes to the top with a 1m35.619s.

"It is another cold one in Vegas tonight, as soon as the sun disappears the temperature really does drop. While the FP1 action might not set pulses racing, race organisers will be happy to come through unscathed after last year. The fans who have come out for the first running are also making the most of it...maybe just to warm up!"

We're seeing a decent number of drivers in the pits now, we're probably going to see some warm tyres bolted on for a round of closing flying laps to end the session.

Hamilton is the only driver not to have tried soft tyres yet in this session.

10 minutes remain in FP1.

Up from 14th to sixth for Verstappen, but he remains 0.807s off the pace of Norris.

Verstappen reports a "connection issue" with his steering wheel, complaining that the radio "went on by itself". A peculiar problem, for sure.

McLaren has shown its hand for the first time this weekend, with Norris the first driver below 96s, putting in a 1m35.954s, as team-mate Piastri improves to fourth, sandwiching the Ferrari drivers.

Hamilton and Russell are out again but on medium tyres.

But he's immediately forced back by Ferrari team-mate Sainz who hammers in a 1m36.218s.

The first change at the top for a while, as Leclerc now puts in a 1m36.430s to better Hamilton by 0.497s.

And we've had confirmation of a five-place grid penalty for Bottas, after the Sauber driver has had a fourth energy store fitted to his car.

Yellow flags were briefly displayed again there - no explanation why quite yet.

On softs, Leclerc puts in a purple middle and personal bests in the other two sectors to move up to second, behind only Hamilton.

Magnussen is on it once again, moving up to third for Haas. This is the freedom of a driver knowing they aren't driving for their future.

"We have a voice but we don't have a vote," McLaren Racing CEO tells Sky Sports on the changing of the F1 race director. He hopes the move is a "step forward".

On the plus side, no drain issues to this point!

From 10th to third for Norris. The times have largely stabilised for the moment, but with another round of fresh rubber, the picture could all change very quickly.

Highlighting the pit entry issue, Albon has now been shown the same black and white flag as his Williams team-mate for crossing the white line.

"The pit entry line is almost impossible to see," reports Russell. With all the lines of the road, it is hugely difficult to pick out.

As per Chandhok's suggestion, a thick yellow line would clear up any confusion there.

An odd problem for Piastri here, as his McLaren refuses to switch off as his mechanics push the car back into the garage. It's eventually fixed, but as per the roll hoop lights, it was an electrical issue.

Currently, Mercedes enjoy a 1-2 led by Hamilton, with Leclerc leading a Ferrari 3-4. Championship players Norris and Verstappen are 10th and 9th respectively.

While the track is never going to fall completely silent during a session this weekend, half the grid have returned to the pits, resulting in a quieter track.

The first black and white flag of the weekend goes to Colapinto. Currently in 18th, he failed to follow the race director's event notes and crossed the white line on pit entry.

Proving how difficult the conditions are, Verstappen runs deep at the end of The Strip following a heavy lock up - his Red Bull screaming as it slid past the cameras.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-race-1123853/1123854/
DATE: 2024

and  will launch from the front row of the grid in Abu Dhabi as  looks to seal a first constructors' title since 1998.

, who secured McLaren's latest crown of any description with his maiden 2008 drivers' title, makes his final bow for  before his switch to , while , , ,  and  all start in F1 for potentially the last time.

The race gets under way at 13:00 GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-bahrain-pre-season-test-day-1-1121307/1121308/
DATE: 2024

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB20

Photo by: Steven Tee / Motorsport Images

Mercedes F1 W15 last flap

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

C3? We can see a few more than that! Mercedes opted for 25 sets of the medium tyre compound for the Bahrain test, more than any other team, having decided to take only two sets each of the C1 and C2. As the Bahrain track surface is so rough, the C3 will serve as next weekend's softest compound - so the team has already got an eye on the season opener.

Photo by: Jake Boxall-Legge

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Spot the inlets either side of the top of Verstappen's helmet. Red Bull's design department certainly wasn't relaxing over the winter.

Red Bull Racing RB20 detail

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sat-how-summer-downgrade-saved-racing-bulls-from-complacency/10685059/
DATE: 2024

A lot of attention has gone to  and the cursed Barcelona floor upgrade that sent it back to the drawing board over the summer, but behind the Scuderia in F1's midfield  suffered a similar fate.

After an encouraging start RB also introduced a new floor at June's Spanish Grand Prix, an upgrade which actually turned out to make the car slower. The team payed the price against increasingly competitive competition from Haas and belatedly  as it slipped behind both to eighth, equalling its result from 2023.

Watch: Ranking Autosport's Top 50 Drivers of 2024 - 40 to 31

The team was also forced into another mid-season driver change with  taking over from Danial Ricciardo after Singapore, but the changes didn't stop there for Red Bull's junior team.

While results have been stagnant in 2024, the team's management is adamant its mid-season blip may actually have been a blessing in disguise and reinforced the idea that the revamp team principal Laurent Mekies and CEO Peter Bayer have been embarking on really was long overdue, and that the Anglo-Italian team couldn't continue the way it goes about developing its cars.

"We had a big, big set back in race 10. We felt we had brought load on the car, but it was not making the car faster. It was making the car slower," Mekies told Motorsport.com.

"I think [it] was a necessary pain to go through, because it really forced us to say: 'What do we miss structurally that produced this sort of step back?' And it forced us to accelerate the changes that we were trying to make.

Laurent Mekies, Team Principal, RB F1 Team, Liam Lawson, RB F1 Team

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

"I think race 10 saved us from being complacent about where we were. It was a good wake-up call to say there is no way the way it's being done now is going to be good enough."

When asked to describe what RB's reorganisation process looks like, Mekies' explanation sounds similar to what McLaren's Andrea Stella has done at his squad - ensuring the right people are in the right place and have the right technical structure to express themselves, without being blocked by being stuck in silos or mired in bureaucracy.

"It's a bit of everything, honestly. At first, it's process. We have made a conscious effort to try to put our people in an environment where they could express themselves best. And that meant changing the structures, changing in the approach, changing the processes. It takes a bit of time to re-gel but that's the main thing.

"And what is then happening is that those people are in the centre of the project, and it is them that then create the tools that you need to have, the better analysis that you need to not fall into this trap. So I could answer to you, it's tools. But in reality, the tools are the consequence of how your people are performing in their environment. It starts with people."

In January, RB is also moving from its old and cramped Bicester outpost into its new building in Milton Keynes, down the road form parent team Red Bull's campus, which will replace Bicester as its UK headquarters to serve alongside its old Minardi base in Faenza.

"We approached the season with two parallel streams," Mekies explained. "On one side we had to get the car out following late development last year into Abu Dhabi. The car at the beginning of the season was very close to the car you have seen in Abu Dhabi. There has been some progress in the winter, but we certainly felt it would not be enough to be where we want it to be.

"And then in parallel to that, you are doing quite a deep change into the structure, into the way we are working, into the processes, because we are starting the process to hopefully build the team to do something that can target bigger fish.

Yuki Tsunoda, RB F1 Team VCARB 01, Daniel Ricciardo, RB F1 Team VCARB 01, Alex Albon, Williams FW46

Photo by: Zak Mauger / Motorsport Images

"Did the Barcelona [upgrade] cost us? Yes, it did. It took us until race 17 or 18 to have a fix, and in that time you have dropped [in competitiveness]. So I think what is a necessary pain is the fact that as a group, we went through that process - accept, understand, fix - which is the core of our sport.

"But I insist it's not about a silver bullet of the development. It's really about having that approach in every single area of the car. Let it be the tyres, the starts, the pitstops, or whatever. But that was a very good example for how we want the core group to stick together when we hit a difficulty. I really feel that in terms of what it has forced us to do internally, it was positive."

Mekies acknowledges there will be "many other road blocks of that type along the way" as the teams fights to get the front of the midfield group behind Aston Martin. The team now has the full complement of allowed customer parts from bigger sibling Red Bull, which includes both front and rear suspension, as well as the gearbox, allowing it to focus on gains in other areas.

Lawson has been promoted to Red Bull's main team, with  the latest Red Bull junior the team will get to take under its wing alongside the now experienced .

Mekies adds: "Is this the end point? No, absolutely not. We have long way to go still in terms of improving our tools, improving our process, improving our analysis to be able to be more protective. It would also be wrong for us to think that it's just about the race 10 update.

"The reality is that in these months, we have made progress on many other things that have nothing to do with aerodynamics, on which we had to make steps forward, and we still have to make steps forward."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/rb-we-all-admit-fault-over-failing-to-get-ricciardo-to-click/10684449/
DATE: 2024

Formula 1 team principal Laurent Mekies has said the team has collectively taken responsibility for failing to make Daniel Ricciardo's final stint at the squad a success.

Last summer Ricciardo was given a second chance by Red Bull as an experienced back-up option to potentially replace  at the main team.

His initial RB cameo in 2023, in place of underperforming , was derailed by a hand injury sustained in a practice crash at the Dutch Grand Prix.

But despite having benefited from a full off-season to prepare for 2024, the veteran Australian still found it hard to find consistent performance in the VCARB 01. Ricciardo showed flashes of his old self at times, including with a stellar sprint race in Miami with fourth place, but was generally outperformed by  at the team.

With Ricciardo no longer fitting the criteria to warrant a potential Red Bull return, the team eventually decided to drop him after the Singapore Grand Prix for reserve driver , who has since done enough to convince Red Bull that  from 2025.

Reflecting on why things didn't work out with Ricciardo, RB team boss Mekies has said the team is collectively taking responsibility for not being able to give the 35-year-old a car he could build momentum in.

Speaking exclusively to Motorsport.com, Mekies said: "The question we have been asked the most was: 'Can Daniel still produce the ultimate speed we have seen?' I think he has on a few occasions, in Miami, in Canada [fifth place in qualifying] and in quite a few other races. So, he did produce that ultimate speed that took him to race wins in the past.

Daniel Ricciardo, VCARB 01, leads Sergio Perez, Red Bull Racing RB20, and Carlos Sainz, Ferrari SF-24

Photo by: Mark Sutton / Motorsport Images

"But for the team, as for the drivers, the biggest difficulty is not to be fast one day. It's to be fast in every race. Did we manage to keep Daniel in that sweet spot often enough? No, that's the reality. I raised my hand and we raised our hands as a team, because we have a big part to play in it. And this led to what happened."

Indirectly, Ricciardo's difficulties ended up benefitting his replacement Lawson, as well as Tsunoda, as the team poured over every data point to find a solution for him, which widened the scope of set-up options the Anglo-Italian team explored with its drivers.

"We have explored a large part of the car's envelope with Daniel," Mekies explained. "It's a never-ending process. You do that every time you have a new update, or every time you have a new characteristic. But certainly, Daniel pushed us to explore that envelope, and it gave the engineering team a very good background of what the car would and could not do."

Mekies also hailed Ricciardo's contribution to the team's development work, as his experience helped RB as it embarked on a technical reorganisation throughout the year.

"There was a huge benefit for the team and for Yuki in terms of Daniel's technical feedback, direction of development, race-winning approach," Mekies added. "Having somebody that knows how it is in a team that wins races, that fights for championships, is setting the benchmark and that counts a lot in a time where you are trying to build the team and target better results.

"That benefit has been huge, also in terms of car understanding and car development. And I think Yuki has been developing a good relationship with Daniel to the extent that he has been able to absorb quite a lot of that and to keep progressing himself in that area."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-qatar-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1123762/
DATE: 2024

After handing victory in the Formula 1 Qatar Grand Prix sprint race to  team-mate  on the final lap,  has another shot at glory in qualifying.

Having repaid Piastri for his own sacrificial gesture in the Brazilian GP sprint, Norris will aim to underline his position as the faster of the papaya drivers by emulating the pace that enabled him to pip  to top spot in sprint qualifying on Friday.

But with Russell keen to strike back at McLaren after being frustrated by Piastri's defence in the sprint, the Las Vegas winner cannot be ruled out of the conversation for the penultimate pole position of the year.

Qualifying gets under way in Losail at 18:00 GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-las-vegas-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp3/1123670/
DATE: 2024

With that, we'll take a breather for a coffee break before firing up all over again for qualifying which starts at 6am GMT. Until then, go well!

George Russell, Mercedes F1 W15

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

What did we learn from that session ahead of qualifying? Well, Mercedes still appears strong and the track conditions will ramp up with every lap, so it could be a case of the last to set a lap time may triumph.

Oscar Piastri, McLaren MCL38

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar / Motorsport Images

So, a flurry of very late action to round out FP3 topped by Russell from Piastri, Sainz, Norris, Verstappen and Hamilton.

Anyway, the other 18 drivers minus Perez and Stroll do get to enjoy an out-lap, lap to the grid for a practice start and then an in-lap. Not much to learn, but it still sees the RBs almost collide as Tsunoda gets his braking wrong and nearly goes into the rear of Lawson.

Perez misses the opportunity to get out on track at the back of the car train, so he has to park at the end of the pitlane facing the red light. He's the only one to miss out and it was an odd one given he left a big gap to Russell ahead. He could've made it.

Stroll has come to a stop just outside the Venetian, as the car's red lights turn off so the marshals can recover the Aston Martin. The session will resume - for exactly 60 seconds to be precise.

Stroll's car totally switched off before he came to a halt and the red lights are flashing on his Aston Martin to indicate it isn't safe to touch yet. That could mean the session is effectively over with three minutes to go.

Not for long though, as a red flag is shown with Stroll parked at the side of the track with his Aston Martin smoking.

But just like that Verstappen is suddenly shuffled down to fifth as Russell goes fastest from Piastri, Sainz and Norris. The lap times keep on coming.

"The grip felt miles better," Verstappen reports on team radio. It certainly seems Red Bull has dialled in that car over the last hour.

Verstappen goes fastest of anyone with a 1m34.137s - 0.081s up on Russell. Problems, what problems?

Perez only manages 11th and 1.4s off the outright pace. Where does Verstappen stack up?

Verstappen has bailed out of his first push lap on the softs as Perez carries on. At the front, Russell takes over top spot again with a 1m34.218s.

Aaaaand there they are. Right on cue, Verstappen and Perez come out in formation and both on fresh soft tyres. Let's see what they've got ahead of qualifying.

There are 15 minutes left in FP3 but still no sign of the Red Bull drivers who haven't ventured out on the soft tyres yet.

After seeing so many empty seats for practice two, it is encouraging to see more spectators here for FP3. After asking around, it seems the locals are not bothered about practice, unlike some of the more-established markets. Organisers say they expect a full house on Saturday, so that's where their focus is. It does make it valid to suggest that perhaps, in order to increase ticket sales, Vegas should be selected as a location for the sprint races. At least it would get the punters in.

Russell briefly takes top spot only for his team-mate Hamilton to reply with a 1m34.341s - once again it is looking promising for Mercedes in these cold and slippery conditions. Can it last until the sessions that really matter?

A switch to Hamilton's onboard camera shows he is pushing on the softs, as he goes fastest overall with a 1m34.565s.

Plenty of lap time improvements elsewhere, as Magnussen goes fastest with a 1m34.883s for Haas.

"This is... I can't drive it. I'm gonna crash. My left front is completely f******," Verstappen says, stating his case to pit. Red Bull duly obliges and calls in its driver.

"It's only getting worse. The car is undriveable," Verstappen reports on team radio. "Just a couple more laps please Max. Have to try and make the best of this," Lambiase replies to his driver. That came after a lock-up at Turn 5.

All 20 drivers are on track so suddenly there is a fair bit of traffic to navigate. Hamilton gets caught behind Alonso and then Tsunoda to restrict his opening time lap to 1m36.590s.

Norris and then Piastri take over at the top, the Australian posting a 1m35.759s for top spot in the McLaren 1-2.

Tsunoda blows that theory away with a 1m37.517s to go three seconds quicker than Verstappen. A high number of drivers are on out-laps now so this track will ramp up rapidly over the final 34 minutes.

Norris posts a 1m41.653s to slot into third behind both Red Bulls. Another warm-up lap or is the track really this much slower? Verstappen improves to go top but only with a 1m40.588s.

Norris has come out to be our yardstick, running on the soft tyres, as Perez and Verstappen both improve by a handful of tenths on their next laps.

Verstappen's opening effort is a leisurely 1m42.180s on the medium tyres. It seems hard to believe track conditions mean nine seconds slower than FP2, but let's see what others can produce before drawing conclusions.

Verstappen has had enough of the hanging around in the pits and nips out for the first time in the session, joined by team-mate Perez. Given all the trouble-free running yesterday - just the one short red flag caused by Albon stoppage in FP2 - it perhaps isn't surprising there isn't much track action early in FP3.

The hard tyre scrubbing continues for a handful of drivers, meaning it is just Tsunoda on track at present. And still just the one lap time overall which came from Perez earlier.

It may only be a practice session but Red Bull and Max Verstappen, in particular, will be keen to show improvement on their performance yesterday. We know the wing is an issue but with everything else now turned up to qualifying spec, let’s see where they actually sit in terms of pace.

Lawson, who has also joined the fun scrubbing in his hard tyres, says it is very slippery on track. The circuit reopened for public traffic between FP2 and this session, so it will be a case of rebuilding the grip levels and cleaning the racing line.

"Ah. Miles off," Perez says over team radio after his first timed lap of 1m41.941s. Given FP2's top times were in the 1m33s, he's made an accurate summation.

Both Aston Martins are also in action early while the rest stay comfortable and warm in the garages. Handy, as it is 14.9C air temperature and given the timing of the sessions that is the warmest it'll be all night.

Zhou nips out for an early exploration of the Las Vegas Strip, taking in the sights during his installation lap. He's joined by Perez and Hamilton, with the Red Bull driver sporting a visibly trimmed rear wing - it looks like someone's taken a bite out of it.

Off we go for final practice!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

While at Red Bull there is concern over its rear wing being unsuited to the demands of the Las Vegas track ,but that they are stuck with it for the weekend. .

Norris took second in FP2, just 0.011s off Hamilton, but . However, digging a little deeper, those concerns aren't strictly showing in the data - .

Lando Norris, McLaren MCL38

Photo by: Zak Mauger / Motorsport Images

The nightmare of manhole covers coming loose and delayed running were a distant memory, as the opening day of track action was a relatively straightforward and low key affair. Hamilton topped both FP1 and FP2 with Mercedes starting strongly in Vegas with Russell second in FP1 and third in FP2 too - .
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1123842/
DATE: 2024

The F1 season reaches a climax in Abu Dhabi with  and  set to battle it out for glory on the constructors' championship.

Off-track, a war of words between  and  has stolen the spotlight from drivers, including , who are either racing with teams for the last time or are making potentially their final appearance in the category.

topped first practice but picked up a 10-place grid penalty for a battery change, as  headed a McLaren 1-2 in FP2 and  repeated the McLaren dominance in FP3.

Qualifying starts at 2:00pm GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp3/1123837/
DATE: 2024

The F1 season reaches a climax in Abu Dhabi with  and  set to battle it out for glory on the constructors' championship.

Off-track, a war of words between  and  has stolen the spotlight from drivers, including , who are either racing with teams for the last time or are making potentially their final appearance in the category.

topped first practice but picked up a 10-place grid penalty for a battery change, as  headed a McLaren 1-2 in FP2.

Final practice gets under way at 10:30am GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/who-is-driving-at-the-2025-f1-abu-dhabi-post-season-test/10783370/
DATE: 2025

The 2025 Formula 1 competitive season may be over, but track activity is not: all 20 cars will be in action in  on Tuesday.

Each team will have one mule car driven by one or both race drivers, featuring Pirelli’s new range of rubber for the 2026 season, with slightly smaller and narrower tyres.

Even the tyres’ construction will be significantly different due to F1’s new technical regulations. When Pirelli asked all F1 teams to submit their predicted downforce levels for the end of 2026, there was much disparity between their simulations.

“It was more difficult for teams to estimate the performance of their 2026 cars at the end of the season,” Pirelli’s Mario Isola explained. “But we needed those simulations because we needed to design a product that is lasting for one year. If they just give us an idea of the car performance at the start of the season, and if we don't know what the rate of development will be, then it's difficult for us.”

Pirelli has therefore developed a broad spectrum of compounds, in case the real-world downforce levels turn out to be higher or lower than predicted by the teams.

The mule cars are 2025-spec machinery that has been modified to drop down closer to next year’s much lower downforce levels, though it cannot be fully accurate, partly because the 2026 cars will feature active aerodynamics.

“We have discussed some limitations with the teams, based on those first tests,” Isola added. “For example, we decided to avoid overloading the tyres on the straights. We were testing with a speed limit at 290km/h or 300km/h, because clearly they will have a lot less downforce on the straights next year. So we agreed on some methodologies for testing with the teams. Thanks to these methodologies it was possible to have feedback from the mule cars that was a little bit more coherent, more close.”

Valtteri Bottas, Mercedes, Mexico Pirelli Test

The test won’t change the 2026 compounds in any case, as the tyres have already been homologated for next season; it will simply help Pirelli choose the compounds for next year.

The Italian manufacturer has brought all compounds to Yas Marina Circuit except for the hardest dry-weather tyre, the C1, and the full-wet.

Meanwhile, the other 10 cars will be driven by rookies as part of the traditional end-of-season young drivers’ test. Only competitors with two grand prix starts or fewer are allowed to take part.

A number of 2025 race drivers will be skipping Tuesday's test.

This includes outgoing Red Bull racer  as well as his team-mate  and Mercedes' , with those teams giving all the track time to youngsters  and  respectively. Verstappen said he was “very happy” to miss out.

will field only , with  missing out.

will be the only test driver handling a mule car, with neither  nor  in action for Aston Martin – which is no surprise as far as the Spanish veteran is concerned, as he was looking forward to not driving the AMR25 any longer.

Ryo Hirakawa, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Many teams will field the same rookie as they did in Free Practice 1.

F2 frontrunners Dino Beganovic, Luke Browning and Jak Crawford will drive for the ,  and Aston Martin squads they are linked to.

Another F2 driver will be in action with his parent outfit,  at Alpine; the Enstone-based outfit will again loan out  to .

Now racing in IMSA with Cadillac,  reserve driver  will drive the Silver Arrow, while Toyota WEC driver and Haas reserve driver  will drive the VF-25.

Red Bull will entrust its protege  with the RB21 after the Japanese racer won the Super Formula championship. 2025 IndyCar runner-up and long-time  driver  will handle the title-winning F1 car.

Most importantly,  will gain important experience ahead of his graduation to Formula 1 with  in 2026.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-race-1126198/1126199/
DATE: 2025

I think that's a good place to leave it. Make sure to keep an eye out for our other post-race reaction, but let's give you one more Lando pic because this is his moment.

And who knows if he'll go back-to-back, because everything promises to look a lot different in the new era.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Michael Potts / LAT Images via Getty Images

Norris added on Sky: "I have to give it to Oscar, he's driven incredible. At some point he's going to get the better of me."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

More from an emotional Norris on Sky: "It's pretty cool. It's pretty insane. It's hard for me just to say it. I feel like I don't want to say it just yet, I'll wake up tomorrow and say it. It's been a season of ups and downs - has it been a perfect season? Absolutely not. Has it been by anybody? No.

"I'm happy I cried. Not many things in my life have made me cry, but today was one."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Rose / Formula 1 via Getty Images

It was all tears in parc ferme.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Andrea Stella, McLaren

Photo by: Bryn Lennon / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Sky now showing a montage of Norris' career up to now. It's mad where the time has gone!

World champion at the age of 26 in his seventh season of F1.

This is a very sweet interview with Lando's mum on Sky. Speaks of watching her grandchild in the Nativity play on Tuesday before flying to Abu Dhabi on Thursday. Mentions of Lando being in the garden driving the tractor as a kid, before Hamilton is caught in the media pen congratulating Norris.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Rudy Carezzevoli / Getty Images

Lando's mum on Sky Sports: "Emotionally drained, but very happy."

He'll be looking at a much bigger trophy soon...

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Rose / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

The Stella-Brown bromance!

Andrea Stella, McLaren, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Carlos Sainz: "Very happy for him. I think he's a great F1 driver. I think unbelievably fast.

"But with his particular way of going about life and things, as much as he's got criticised a lot during the last few years for being how he is, he's world champion and everyone can keep dreaming about being F1 world champion while he goes about his own way and does things his own way.

"So I'm extremely happy for him because he must have felt a lot of pressure over the last few weekends and he managed to pull it off."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

It's times like this where pictures speak a thousand words

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Brown going over to man he once compared to a villain from a horror film...

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando and his bosses.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Andrea Stella, McLaren, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Zak Brown: "If you beat Max and Red Bull, you've done a great job."

He then adds that Piastri is a "future world champion".

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Let's hear more from Lando.

"It's incredible. Pretty surreal. I dreamed of this for a long, long time - everyone does - a lot goes into a season like this. A lot of ups, a lot of downs, but none of that matters if you try to come out on top. The last seven, eight years I've been with McLaren, the last 17, 18 years of my life I've been chasing this dream.

"My best performances this year came when I needed them the most."

The moment Lando crossed the line to become champion.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

But queue the champagne, as Norris does his trademark celebration as a world champion for the first time!

Piastri lifts the runner-up trophy on the podium. It does look like he's trying to put on a brave face - a penny for his thoughts etc.

PR email of the day, dropped almost the second the grand prix finished. A street in Somerset, Lando's home county, will be named in his honour. It's almost like they had that planned and ready to go!

Lifts his head up to the sky as a Formula 1 world champion...

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Here comes the podium as world champion Lando Norris is first to greet the steps!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

The second Autosport young driver winner to win the F1 world championship after Jenson Button...

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Norris: "I've not cried in a while. DIdn't think I'd cry but I did. It's a long journey, a long journey."

Speaking of the championship, here is how the top three finishes:

1. Lando Norris - 423 points

2. Max Verstappen - 421 points

3. Oscar Piastri - 410 points

It's hugmania on that pit straight. Zak, Sainz, Russell, mechanics, family, all wanting a bit of Lando.

But the cameras did catch a nice moment when Norris' mum headed over to Piastri to console the other McLaren driver, who finishes this year third in the championship.

As is customary in Abu Dhabi, Norris is now doing doughnuts down the start-finish straight...

Verstappen: "I'm definitely not disappointed. I'm proud of everyone, we never give up."

A tearful Norris: "I love you guys, thanks for everything - you deserve it. I love you mum, I love you dad."

Camera pans straight to the McLaren garage, where Lando's mum is crying. These moments are the ones to savour...

LANDO NORRIS IS THE 2025 FORMULA 1 WORLD CHAMPION
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1126190/
DATE: 2025

That's us for now! We shall be back for race day when a world champion will be crowned...

Piastri: "The last lap in Q3 was pretty good, there's wasn't a lot left in that. Max has looked very quick in the long runs, let's see how much pace is a factor tomorrow."

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

Norris: "Max did a good job, so congrats to him. We did everything we could, my lap was pretty good so I'm happy. We just weren't fast enough today."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

Verstappen: "Of course incredibly happy to be in first, that's the only thing we can do."

Should he win tomorrow then he will match Hamilton's record of five Abu Dhabi GP victories.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

That also means Verstappen finishes the year with the most poles of any driver:

Verstappen - 8Norris - 7Piastri - 6Russell - 2Leclerc - 1

Max Verstappen is on pole for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, beating runner-up Lando Norris by 0.201s - sublime pace from the Red Bull driver, who even improved on his second lap without a tow.

Oscar Piastri is third but, I'm sure to Max's dismay, George Russell is only fourth. As it stands, Norris is world champion.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Two sectors down and neither McLaren driver is faster than Max...

Looks like there won't be any tow with Max going out before Tsunoda. Russell is eyeing one up from the world champion though and maybe Max will willingly give him one if it means getting the Mercedes man above Norris...

So it's Verstappen on provisional pole while team-mate Tsunoda is 10th. One does wonder what Red Bull does with Yuki in these final runs. Is it worth making him do a proper lap, or just give Max another tow?

Piastri splits the pair but Russell only manages fifth. Good job by Verstappen, but he needs more help from his rivals to push Norris down.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

It allows the four-time champion to set a 1m22.295s and it is four tenths quicker than Norris. Wow!

Though it must be said Lando was on used softs with Verstappen on fresh.

Tsunoda gives Verstappen a tow in sector two. Think that was planned don't you?

Here we are, the final quali session of the year and it's actually looking too close to call right now!

Antonelli had complaints about the rear but everything was clearly fine for team-mate Russell, who topped the session.

Verstappen was just 0.022s behind with Norris 0.074s off top!

George Russell, Mercedes

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

But that is Q2 now done and the bottom five is as follows:

Piastri was quickest in Q1 but he's survived a Q2 scare finishing just eighth and less than a tenth above the drop zone!

Quite a busy end to the session this and looks like Leclerc has now removed himself from danger, climbing up to a provisional fifth from 10th.

Well that's a busy pitlane! Everybody queuing up to get a final lap completed in these last four minutes.

Mercedes is looking good, but don't think Red Bull can rely on Ferrari to get in front of McLaren with Hamilton out in Q1 and Leclerc only 10th. The Scuderia didn't have a great FP3 either and Charles said the only positive of Friday was sharing the track with his brother Arthur.

Norris is loving that final sector because quite a few times now it's turned a good lap into a very good one. He's currently third and 0.074s off top with the fastest sector three time.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Not sure that's the record Hamilton had in mind when he joined Ferrari!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Hulkenberg's Q1 exit means him and team-mate Bortoleto will finish the year 15-15 for qualifying sessions in 2025. This is 12-12 without sprint weekends.

Absolute level pecking.

He's a lonely man out there as Verstappen is the only driver on track. Come on everyone, it's already started...

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

Quick turnaround: we're back for Q2 and Verstappen is first out.

But that's that for Q1 with Hamilton, Albon, Hulkenberg, Gasly and Colapinto all being eliminated.

Celebrations for Piastri though, as he was close to three tenths quickest with Verstappen second and Antonelli in third. Norris sixth.

"Every time mate, I'm so sorry," was Hamilton's reaction.

But here is a shock, well it would have been a year ago, as Lewis Hamilton suffers a Q1 exit for the third consecutive race.

The winter break cannot come quick enough for the seven-time champion...

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

Colapinto also puts in a lap not good enough so it's a double Alpine Q1 elimination - pretend to be shocked!

Speaking of the bottom five, Gasly improves but not by much so he is out.

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / LAT Images via Getty Images

Wasn't the best lap for Lando though, as the championship leader has since dropped to fifth. But quite frankly, who cares? It's only Q1 and what matters is the bottom five.

Whether it was or not is another matter, but it's done the trick as McLaren goes 1-2. Big advantage to Piastri as well!

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Rudy Carezzevoli / Getty Images

New softs for both McLaren cars - was that really needed?

Just five minutes remain in Q1 and cars are coming back out for their final runs. It's certainly a close grid with the top 18 within eight tenths of each other.

Well, Bearman's Haas is looking good because Ocon is currently in the dropzone.

Albon, Leclerc, Gasly and Colapinto are the others in the bottom five with Leclerc and Gasly having used the mediums. Seems a bit of a strange choice that one.

We mentioned earlier that Hamilton also started on the mediums, but he's since switched to softs and is fifth.

Go on Bearman! That Haas is looking good today with the rookie currently second in Q1 after finishing seventh, one spot behind team-mate Ocon, in FP3.

Oliver Bearman, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

More lap times are coming in now and Verstappen goes fastest with a 1m23.325s. It was only yesterday that he complained of struggles with his pace.

Back to the action, interesting choice of tyre for Hamilton and Gasly as both are on mediums with the rest on softs. Looks like they're hoping to save a fresh set of the red-stripped rubber.

So the pole position award will be presented by Benson Boone. Right, time for Google to come in handy...

Never fear Hamilton fans, as he's out on track for Q1 with his car having recovered from his FP3 crash.

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari crash

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/isack-hadjar-relives-abu-dhabi-2021-heartbreak-for-lewis-hamilton-smashing-the-tv/10782774/
DATE: 2025

has discussed his reaction to the controversial end of the 2021 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, admitting he was "smashing the TV" as he watched the end of the race play out. Despite being part of the Red Bull family and set to race for the team in 2026 beside , he admits he still has "mixed emotions".

Speaking on The Red Flags Podcast over the weekend of the 2025 Las Vegas Grand Prix, the  rookie described his reaction to the season-ending race in 2021, where Verstappen took the title, ending Lewis Hamilton's reign.

"I was alone in my room," he said. "There's no cameras, there's no mic or anything, there's just me in front of my screen, smashing the TV, and that's it.

“But obviously I was happy for Red Bull because at the end of the day it's not  that gave me a shot at F1. They didn't sign me. So I felt bad for him… But mixed feelings.”

The young driver has often spoken about Hamilton as being his childhood hero.

“I remember when I was watching TV as a kid, I was like, 'I hope he doesn't retire,' you know? Like... I want to get there once he's still racing.

"Actually, my first year in F1 is his first year with , so it's quite iconic in a way.

"I'm just very lucky because I never thought I would be racing with him. I thought he would retire, I'd get to F1 later. And now to be here and racing him is just... It's a huge privilege.

Isack Hadjar, Racing Bulls Team

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / LAT Images via Getty Images

"I got to race him as well a few times this year."

While he has incredible respect for Hamilton, he added he'd never "open the door" for the seven-time world champion.

Since he started the 2025 season, his first year in the championship, he's made a solid name for himself with 51 points to his name and a podium finish. This performance has been closely watched by Red Bull, which has now promoted him to a seat beside the Dutchman.

"It's a very good moment in my career, that's for sure," he told the media ahead of the final race of the season. "For all the hard work through the years being rewarded now.

"Obviously, it's just the beginning of a new journey. But I'm very excited and stepping into a new era of Formula 1 as well. I think it's very good timing."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp3-1126182/1126183/
DATE: 2025

And that's all from us for now! We'll be back a little bit later to guide you qualifying as it happens - please do join us again!

That's it for practice sessions this year. Just the small matter of qualifying and the race to go...

Photo by: Ronald Vording

Verstappen improves slightly with his last lap of the session, now just 0.124s off Russell and 0.120s off Norris.

Russell leads the session, then - so Mercedes is very much in the fight for pole here.

Ocon's found a good time to get up to sixth, perhaps he's found a fix for his braking woes. As it stands, the top 17 is all within 0.8s.

Norris can't quite improve either, despite improvement in the opening two sectors.

Some damage to Tsunoda's sidepod and floor, so he's ended up coming back in. Albon had ringside seats for the incident.

"The car still jumps, I can't keep my feet on the pedals," Verstappen reports.

The McLarens go out for a second set of laps on the same softs - Piastri is a smidgen slower than his previous effort.

Antonelli drove out of the pitlane and straight into the path of Tsunoda - which has caused damage to the Italian's front wing.

Better news for Mercedes is that Russell has gone to the top, 0.004s up on Norris. Verstappen goes third fastest, 0.180s off Russell's effort.

Bortoleto was matching Norris through that lap, as was Alonso - but their final sector times were well down on that of Norris.

You can get close in those opening sectors, as they're mainly affected by the braking into Turns 5, 6, and 7. But the final sector is the difficult bit.

Norris looked unsteady through Turn 6 and 7, and has to correct himself. He's down on Piastri out of the opening two sectors, but finds a monster final sector to post a 1m23.338s.

Hulkenberg's on a quick lap too, although has a small correction in the final sector - thus, he's 0.532s down.

Verstappen does a 1m24.116s, while Tsunoda aborts his lap.

But Piastri demonstrates the worth of those new tyres, and posts a 1m23.593s to go top by some margin.

Here we are - fresh softs for Piastri, Norris, and Stroll. Verstappen's on a swift one as we speak...

And we go again, 17 minutes on the clock. Nobody has gone out on fresh tyres, so perhaps they're saving a final set of softs until the final 10 minutes or so.

Alright, we're ready to go - almost. We'll restart in a minute's time.

We're just waiting for the go-ahead while Hamilton's car gets picked out of the Tecpro barrier - and, of course, for the barrier to be sorted.

Bit of repair work for Ferrari to do too, as the front-right suspension is hanging on by a thread.

Hamilton was on a quick lap and, on the turn-in to Turn 9 at the end of the second back stretch, the rear just went out from under him.

"Something buckled at the front and snapped the rear," Hamilton reported, as he gets out of the car.

Hamilton spins at Turn 9 and goes into the wall!

Bearman posts another lap, 0.086s off Verstappen's benchmark. He's been quick all weekend so far.

McLaren has more to find on its subsequent runs, although both drivers did their first soft-tyre laps relatively early into the session compared to those in the top five. Mercedes too, as Russell's only 13th and Antonelli's 17th.

Hamilton hits a 1m24.470s to go fastest, but is beaten by Verstappen by 0.225s. Stroll sets a time just 0.059s off Verstappen's effort.

Tsunoda, after that near-miss, splits the two Saubers - who are currently sixth and eighth.

Woah! Norris came across a very slow Tsunoda on the exit of Turn 11, and very nearly resulted in the two coming together.

Shades of Rosberg and Karthikeyan in the 2012 race there, when the then-Mercedes driver saw the HRT too late.

Norris sets a 1m24.533s on his second run on those softs. Tsunoda is up to second - or was, as Leclerc, then Bearman, go up to P2 - Bearman just 0.008s off.

Piastri is 0.595s off Norris at the present moment, in fifth. Laps coming in thick and fast now.

Both Aston Martin drivers have been given a €25,000 fine for not appearing at a scheduled fan engagement activity - with €15,000 of that suspended for 12 months.

The team had apparently said to both drivers that their appearances weren't required due to them stepping back for Jak Crawford and Cian Shields in FP1. Aston Martin has offered to make it up to the fans by making both drivers available for an appearance later this weekend.

Norris sets a 1m24.728s, so the circuit's not quite where it was at the end of yesterday.

But we expect it to ramp up a bit towards the end of the session. Leclerc does a time and goes second fastest, but he's over a second off Norris.

Here comes one of the big hitters, as Lando Norris breaks onto the circuit. Charles Leclerc also arrives on the scene.

Gasly has set a 1m25.984s, and Colapinto with a 1m26.591s, with our first timed laps of the season.

Colapinto and Gasly hit the road now, on Renault's final F1 weekend as an engine supplier...for now.

It's not the first time we've said that - Renault left at the end of 1986 and 1997 - and in both cases, returned within five years.

The works Renault engine teams Williams and Benetton

Photo by: Motorsport Images

It's still just the Aston Martin duo doing their laps around the circuit. Both Alonso and Stroll were summoned to the stewards for missing the fan engagement activities earlier on today.

I'm sure they had more important things to do, Aston Martin's drivers really don't need distractions right now as they battle for *checks notes* seventh in the constructors' championship.

Here we go, two Aston Martins going out for their weekly tyre scrub.

In the meantime, we've got F1's car performance graphic on the screen, which almost certainly means nothing.

...but no takers just yet. Limited tyres across a weekend, of course, so teams don't want to go out just yet.

Give it a few minutes.

And here's your weather watch: it's 27C and a little cloudy out there, with 38C track temperature.

It's the last chance for our 20 drivers to get acquainted to their cars over a practice session, before we get into qualifying later on.

We'll see if there's any big overnight changes - did McLaren and Red Bull find anything extra, and will Mercedes supply a bit more of a challenge, or will Haas and Sauber continue to surprise?

Esteban Ocon, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Max Verstappen is currently feeling pessimistic about his Abu Dhabi Grand Prix chances as Red Bull lacks pace to McLaren at the 2025 Formula 1 title showdown.

The four-time world champion finished runner-up to McLaren championship leader Lando Norris in both FP1 (+0.008s) and FP2 (+0.363s) on Friday at Yas Marina Circuit.

It comes during the season finale where Norris simply needs a podium finish to claim a maiden title, as he is 12 points ahead of Verstappen and 16 above team-mate Oscar Piastri.

Lando Norris ended the final Friday practice session of 2025 on top of the FP2 standings at the Formula 1 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, over three tenths clear of Max Verstappen - as Oscar Piastri was only 11th.

Hello everyone, and welcome back to our coverage of practice at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.

And it's the last practice session of the season, before we get into the business end of the year-long title battle.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp2-1126167/1126168/
DATE: 2025

That's all from us, we shall be back for FP3 tomorrow.

As we start wrapping up this live commentary, I'll hit you with this stat.

Max Verstappen could become the fourth driver to have won the F1 title without leading the championship at any point during the season.

John Surtees (1964), James Hunt (1976) and Sebastian Vettel (2010) are those to have done it up to now.

Sebastian Vettel, Red Bull Racing RB6

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar / Motorsport Images

The session may be over but it's a busy track, because no doubt we'll start seeing some practice starts.

That's that then! The perfect day for Norris, who topped FP1 and FP2 with title rival Verstappen second in both. Piastri, meanwhile, nowhere near having skipped FP1 before finishing 11th in second practice.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

An interesting look at laps completed in FP2 and Verstappen, Albon and Lawson lead the way with 29. Ocon has completed the least on 24.

Bit of a boring end to the session with cars just going through their respective programmes. As predicted earlier, the leaderboard hasn't really changed in the last 10 minutes.

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Gabriel Bortoleto: "Who's this Ferrari?"

Jose Manuel Lopez: "Leclerc...the big Leclerc."

Bit of a funny exchange between Bortoleto and his Sauber race engineer after encountering the Ferrari on track.

It comes as FP1 saw both Charles and Arthur Leclerc drive for Ferrari as part of F1's young driver rule. Lewis Hamilton is now back though, but has spent much of FP2 in the bottom half.

Arthur Leclerc, Scuderia Ferrari

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

"Don't think he's totally dialled in yet, but he'll get there," Zak Brown tells Sky Sports regarding Piastri.

For the sake of a dramatic title showdown, let's hope he does because he's been nowhere in this FP2 session.

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Cars are back out and many are onto the harder compounds as expected. They'll be going through their long-run programmes now and so it's unlikely that the leaderboard will change much in the final 15 minutes.

Once again, good from Sauber which is fifth and sixth in this session after finishing fifth and seventh in FP1.

Hulkenberg and Bortoleto seem to be giving Peter Sauber a good send-off before the Audi takeover next year.

Gabriel Bortoleto, Sauber

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

"I don't know how it's so good," reported a jubilant Bearman, who is fourth in his Haas. Don't sound so surprised Oli, you did finish fourth in Mexico not long ago!

Looks like the hectic soft-tyre window is now coming to a close with half the grid back in their respective garages. Happy days for Lando and Max, but not Oscar.

Does it get better for Oscar on his second run? Not really, he remains 10th and was seven tenths off on that lap after a lock up at Turn 7. A lot of work to be done for the Aussie, who was once in complete command of this championship.

Although, Piastri didn't have a great first run on the softs as he is six tenths off the pace with reports of balance issues...

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

And now Norris goes fastest with the softs, ahead of Verstappen and Russell. So yes, sort of similar to FP1 in that the usual frontrunners are now at the front in this soft-tyre window.

Speaking of soft-tyre runs, Red Bull has fitted a set onto Verstappen's car and straight away he's gone quickest with 34 minutes remaining...

Thanks for that Fil, adding on the action, there are resemblances to FP1 which early on had a few random names at the top. That's like now with Bearman and Hadjar being the top two.

It wasn't until the soft-tyre runs around the 30-minute mark that the usual suspects stamped their mark.

I'm standing at Latifi Corner, which is a good spot to see this generation of F1 cars in anger one last time. Judging from the pulsating beats emanating from the packed yachts lining Yas Marina behind, not everyone shares our interest in FP2.

But we're hearing there has been a last minute surge in interest in this weekend after the events of Las Vegas and Qatar. A lot of fans and VIPs made a late effort to be here for the decider.

And it's dangerous to extrapolate too much from a single corner sequence, but you probably don't need us to tell you the Ferrari looks a handful.

It's been a very busy opening 15 minutes with 19 drivers currently on track. All three compounds are in use as well, mostly the mediums, with Hadjar currently top on the softs.

Norris is fastest of those with the mediums and Hulkenberg on the hards.

Isack Hadjar, Racing Bulls Team

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Verstappen caught out by Norris behind after receiving mixed messages from Lambiase over whether the McLaren was on a fast lap or not.

"What's this guy doing?", was Norris' response. Mind games already started?

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

ICYMI - Exclusive: Lindblad on his F1 graduation and telling Norris 'I would see him in five years'

By graduating to Racing Bulls in 2026, Britain's Arvid Lindblad has delivered on his own childhood vision that he would somehow make it to Formula 1. Speaking exclusively to Autosport, he tells all about his ambition, his Swedish-Indian family heritage and a promise he made to Lando Norris.

And Bearman is now replaced at the top by another driver on the soft tyre which is Hadjar.

It's no surprise that the quickest time is currently set by one of only two drivers on the soft tyre: Bearman with a 1m24.744s.

Ocon is also on softs with the rest on mediums apart from Hulkenberg and Colapintio, who have hard rubber.

The hard tyre was predominantly used in the early stages of FP1, but the medium rubber seems the most popular for this more representative second session. It's already a busy track.

Several drivers in contention for the F1 title going into the season finale? We've been here before... As Lando Norris, Max Verstappen and Oscar Piastri prepare to battle for the 2025 world championship, here’s how it previously panned out...

Who else was in the team principal press conference? Obviously Red Bull's Laurent Mekies with Verstappen also a title contender. But it wasn't all questions about the championship fight, because this week the Austrian outfit announced Hadjar as Verstappen's team-mate for 2026 meaning Tsunoda is without a seat.

On the matter of Tsunoda and his chances of returning to F1, Mekies said: "We have tried everything we could to to support Yuki. At some stage we had to make the difficult call between where we were seeing that going for for the following years. "I hope and I think that Yuki will get another chance. He will be reserve driver with us next year, you never know what's going to happen.

"We have been we have been quite famous in making fairly swift driver decisions in the past. So, look, when I recall one moment at the end of the season 2024, Yuki was was driving very well. It was very difficult for him to digest."

Yuki Tsunoda, Red Bull Racing, Laurent Mekies, Red Bull Racing Team Principal

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

McLaren's Zak Brown was also in the Abu Dhabi team boss press conference and he was asked about the prospect of team orders between Lando and Oscar come Sunday.

“In the sense of team orders, as long as both drivers have a chance to win the world championship – which they clearly do sitting here right now – then it's business as usual, they're free to race,” said Brown.

“Obviously we’ll be practical and realistic. If, as the weekend develops, as the race develops, it becomes clear that one has a significantly better chance than another, then we're a team that wants to win the drivers' championship, and we will race accordingly to do whatever we can to get whatever that driver is in front to try and win the race.

“Our team orders have been around giving equal opportunity to win the championship, but as the race plays out, if it becomes clear that both can't, then we're going to do what's in the best interest of the team and try and win the drivers' championship.”

Away from the title picture, it was a strong FP1 for Sauber as Hulkenberg finished fifth with Bortoleto seventh. It will be the final race for the Swiss squad before it becomes the Audi works team next year.

Over to team principal Jonathan Wheatley, who said: "We have Peter Sauber [team founder] with us this weekend. Peter and I get on brilliantly.

"What we want to do is sign off on this incredible journey in Formula 1 for the Sauber name by making him as proud as we can on Sunday and putting to bed respectfully the Sauber legacy as we move forward into becoming the Audi F1 team."

Nico Hulkenberg, Sauber

Photo by: Andy Hone/ LAT Images via Getty Images

No doubt the McLaren driver will be happy to be back for FP2...

We all know what's at stake this weekend with Norris, Verstappen and Piastri all fighting for the title.

The Aussie may be on the back foot though after skipping FP1 as part of F1's young driver mandate. Norris and Verstappen were the top two in the relatively uneventful session:

Hello, and welcome to live commentary of second practice for this weekend's Abu Dhabi GP!
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp1--1126159/1126160/
DATE: 2025

That's all from us - we'll see you a bit later for FP2, which should be a bit more representative! See you then!

Hirakawa was quickest of the rookie drivers in 11th, Aron 13th, O'Ward 14th, Lindblad 15th, A. Leclerc 16th, Iwasa 17th, Browning 18th, Crawford 19th, Shields 20th.

There's your last FP1 of the year in the history books. Norris is quickest from Verstappen by just 0.008s.

"We are so slow, no? The car feels like it's got zero grip," Charles Leclerc says - as he's told he's not much quicker than the rest of the midfield.

Piastri can't stifle a yawn, and realises he's been caught on camera.

Browning bowls a wide at Turn 1, so its rookies and experienced drivers alike who are finding the run-off.

Hadjar's got a "jumping" car, and at this point I really don't think these drivers will miss the current cars. Like, at all.

Big spin for Leclerc (Charles) at Turn 5, but he's managed to save it and keep going.

"I think Charles is doing some burnouts for the fans," his brother suggests as he follows him into the corner.

"I think there might be something broken on the car," Verstappen reports. "Where are the main issues?" GP replies, who gets the unhelpful response that "it's everywhere".

Everything's infected with brokenness now.

Crawford finally gets a non-hard tyre lap in, doing a lap on the mediums that gets him up to 18th. Browning goes 17th with a lap on softs, 1s off the pace. Leclerc (Jr) moves up to 18th ahead of the two Astons.

15 minutes remain, and our top 10 is Norris, Antonelli, Leclerc (Sr), Antonelli, Hulkenberg, Russell, Bortoleto, Bearman, Sainz, Colapinto.

Bearman is told that Haas will have to retire the car for the session - a sensor is apparently the issue.

Bearman gets up to eighth after his lay-off in the pits. Continued trouble was suspected by Haas, but the Briton keeps going on the mediums.

Norris nips past Verstappen's time, 0.008s up on the Red Bull thus far on those used softs.

There appears to be something on the ground along the start-finish straight. Debris? Water bottle? Crisp packet?

It looks like a can...a silver and blue can, to be precise. Now, if only there was a drinks brand who used such a colour scheme...

Bearman's back out again, but is being told to pit with potentially the same issue as before.

Lindblad is also back on track after Red Bull changed his floor.

Norris goes second quickest, 0.026s behind Verstappen. Verstappen's gone for another tour, 0.021s down on his best effort. Crawford and Shields almost had a moment at Turn 2, as Shields cut off the racing line late.

Meanwhile, more end-of-year radio hilarity: "You have Leclerc Junior at two seconds," Lambiase tells Verstappen. "I find it quite funny you call him junior," comes Verstappen's reply.

Antonelli moves up to third now. Norris aborted his lap on the softs, so he's used it as a prep lap and he's going again - he had a snap at Turn 3.

Russell goes second with a 1m24.733s, 0.24s down on Verstappen's opener on softs, while Hulkenberg moves up to third - also on softs.

Lindblad is in the pits and his (well, Tsunoda's) car is getting some attention from the mechanics.

Verstappen's on softs now, seeing what he can do on a quick lap. He sets a 1m24.493s to go top over Hadjar.

Arthur Leclerc saves his Ferrari from a snap at Turn 12, and brushes the run-off.

Moment of minor hilarity when Russell is told "Owasa" is near him on the circuit. "I think that's O'Ward, not O'Wasa", the Mercedes driver replies.

Hirakawa goes up to ninth on the hard tyre, covering for the lack of running at Haas as Bearman is in the bits. He states that he's got "annoying" bouncing, which is very much the situation with these cars...

Bortoleto goes fastest with a 1m25.398s, on the hard tyre - the circuit is cleaning up.

"The grip is really bad, feels like I'm driving on ice" - Lindblad giving a Verstappen-esque appraisal of an early-weekend Red Bull.

Bearman got back to the pits, ready for his team to inspect the issue at play.

"I've lost power," Bearman reports. There's a leak in the system, so he'll hope he can crawl back to the pitlane.

Hulkenberg goes top with a 1m25.439s, 0.015s up on Norris.

Browning's getting a new radio after the earlier issues, hence why he's not got a timed lap in so far.

Elsewhere in rookie-watch, O'Ward is seventh, Lindblad 13th, Aron 14th, then Hirakawa, Leclerc (A), Iwasa, Crawford, and Shields.

Norris does a fast final sector to set a 1m25.454s, returning to the top. Verstappen's got a good middle sector, and that's second for him.

Sainz goes top on the hard tyre, setting a 1m25.712s. Top four all closely matched at the minute, although this session means basically nothing given the circuit conditions.

Leclerc The Elder moves up to sixth, until Antonelli posts the fastest time of the session and does a 1m25.708s.

A few shuffles at the top; Lindblad was very briefly top of the charts, but Norris throws down a 1m25.764s on the mediums to go top. Hulkenberg just a fraction behind on the same tyre as it stands.

O'Ward then goes up to second on the softs, before Russell nudges ahead of the IndyCar star.

Verstappen sets a 1m27.130s on the hard tyre to go fastest, despite a smidgen of traffic. Shields blocked him a little bit there.

Meanwhile, both Alpine drivers have a wobble out of the final corner, while Browning has a bit of radio trouble and struggled to hear that Hadjar was coming.

Iwasa kicks us off with a 1m29.850s on the hard tyre, beaten by O'Ward's 1m27.398s on the softs. Sainz, Lindblad, and Antonelli also get their first laps in.

The Racing Bulls duo head out first - Hadjar from Iwasa, followed by O'Ward - in Piastri's McLaren for this session.

Lindblad and one of the Leclercs is on the road - Arthur, not Charles!

Not long until FP1 now, and we'll get to see a(nother) glimpse of next year's new rookie driver in Arvid Lindblad.

The rest are seasoned FP1 drivers at this point, bar Cian Shields - but the Scotsman has been doing some TPC running with Aston Martin this year.

Lando Norris, Max Verstappen, and Oscar Piastri were together in the press conference yesterday, to a packed out media room.

Here's how it went down on Thursday:

Eight of the 10 teams still have FP1 rookie quotas to fulfil - they'll check that box in this session, one of the less representative sessions as it's held in the day. Here's the list of FP1 swaps.

McLaren - Pato O'Ward in for Oscar PiastriRed Bull - Arvid Lindblad in for Yuki TsunodaFerrari - Arthur Leclerc in for Lewis HamiltonWilliams - Luke Browning in for Alex AlbonRacing Bulls - Ayumu Iwasa in for Liam LawsonAston Martin - Jak Crawford in for Lance Stroll, Cian Shields in for Fernando AlonsoHaas - Ryo Hirakawa in for Esteban OconAlpine - Paul Aron in for Pierre Gasly

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Hello everyone - and welcome to our live coverage of the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix weekend.

So, we're here. 23 races done, one to go. 12 points separating the top two in the championship, 16 points separating the top three. And it all begins here in FP1!

The Driver World Champion's trophy...who will have their signature etched upon it next?

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-updates-media-day/1126145/
DATE: 2025

That's all from us this afternoon - join us again tomorrow as we cover off the practice sessions, and assess how the race weekend is shaping up! Thanks for joining, and we'll see you then!

You can stay in touch with everything F1 from Abu Dhabi with the following schedule (all Abu Dhabi local times):

FP1: 13:30, FP2: 17:00SATURDAY

FP3: 14:30, Q: 18:00SUNDAY

Yuki Tsunoda says he was told after Qatar that Red Bull would not be keeping him for 2026; understandably, he was left disappointed by the news that he would not be racing next year.

He says that his Red Bull contract didn't allow him to pursue leads elsewhere, but added that his only regret in moving up to the brand's main team was that he missed out on a "pretty good f***ing car" with Racing Bulls.

"I'm disappointed obviously and pissed off and how I was told was it was right after the race, from Helmut, yeah privately, that I'm not going to race next year so I think that's it.

"But surprisingly I'm okay, I mean not okay but like I'm surviving okay, like the day after, the morning I ordered breakfast as usual, same food," Tsunoda said.

"Probably I'm not recognising enough that it will be the last race for this year or at least for next year so yeah, maybe I'll feel more after Abu Dhabi, but yeah, that's how it went and how I feel now."

On having only one regret: "Probably I was saying that I didn't have any regrets. The only regret I have is missing out that pretty good f***ing car, but also throwing away your kids, your baby, because it's the car that I developed with the team throughout the years since we had this regulation and I'm sure there's my DNA inside as well."

Yuki Tsunoda, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lewis Hamilton says that he supported Ferrari's decision to stop development in 2025 and that a dip in performance was anticipated - but it "felt worse" living through it.

Hamilton's demeanour has not been one of great enthusiasm of late as Ferrari's results have dropped away from the other top-four teams, but he says it hasn't taken a long-term toll.

"I mean, it didn't have a psychological effect on me personally. I didn't know at the end of the year we'd be where we are, no. We anticipated it, but it felt worse, naturally," Hamilton said.

"But I was a part of pushing Fred - we can't fall behind the others in terms of that development for the new car, because it's a steep learning curve for all of us. So I supported it 100%.

"I still do. I think it was the right decision. Particularly where we were already with the car, we weren't fighting for a championship."But it's just meant that it's been harder to maintain the performance, at least some of the performance we had at the beginning of the year. I can't answer the question for the rest of the team. I think everyone's stayed really positive in my experience. So I've not seen a psychological effect."

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Kimi Antonelli opened up on the abuse he received in the wake of the Qatar Grand Prix, as a torrent of horrific social media comments was sent his way following misplaced accusations about losing a place to Lando Norris.

Red Bull's Gianpiero Lambiase suggested to Max Verstappen that Antonelli let Norris through, a statement echoed by advisor Helmut Marko. Both apologised for their comments afterwards.

"It was not easy to get all those kind of comments, after the race, especially for something that I would never do such as waving past a competitor," Antonelli said.

"I was fighting for P3. At the end of the day, I was pushing hard and I was trying to get into the DRS of Sainz.

"After so many laps in dirty air I'm pushing so hard, the mistake arrived, because I obviously every lap I was pushing a bit more and more to get closer and I arrived to the point where the tyre gave up. At that moment I did a mistake and Lando passed me and, you know, then after the race to receive those kind of comments, definitely it hurt.

On Red Bull's apology: "It was nice to see the Red Bull statement, also GP came to talk to me as well and we clarified, I also clarified with Max and that was nice.

"But apart from that, after that I got a lot of support which was nice and definitely also it helped to kind of forget what happened and focus on onto this weekend."

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Norris has done quite a bit of the talking so far in this press conference and, asked if McLaren had discussed the chance of one driver helping the other, both drivers said that this hadn't been part of the team's preparation.

Norris added: "I haven't asked for it and I don't want to ask for it. If I was asked to help Oscar I think I would, because that's just the way I am, but yeah, I haven't asked for it."

Both McLaren drivers have their families at the track, while Verstappen does not - stating that "everything was cancelled after Zandvoort". His father Jos is rallying in Kenya this weekend, and his mother "is at home with the dogs".

Lando Norris, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

The final Thursday press conference of the year - and it's a packed room with questions for Max Verstappen, Lando Norris, and Oscar Piastri.

Norris: "Nothing changes, just some reviews of last weekend, what was clearly not good for us and the mistakes we made, and what we could improve on. but that's normal post-weekend understanding. But nothing does change, for everyone in the team, just more excitement."

Verstappen: "Spent some time with my daughter, figured some stuff for GT3 for next year, sim team planning for next year. Pretty straightforward stuff!"

Piastri: "I wasn't organising GT3 teams! I played some padel, and treated it as normal. Not that many days in between, had a marketing day, so that's been it!"

Speaking in the press conference, both George Russell and Charles Leclerc shared their experiences of the past four years.

Russell spoke about Mercedes' initial difficulties and having to play catch-up, while Leclerc explained that Ferrari's bright start to 2022 was undone by its porpoising.

Russell on Mercedes' 2022-25 fortunes: "I think we started in the wrong place, it lead us down and had to revert. Red Bull had almost a six-month, eight-month headstart while we were trying to work [porpoising] out."

Leclerc on Ferrari's lack of progress from 2022: "I agree, I think for us there are many reasons which played a role. In 2022 we started quite well but had porpoising. Red Bull had a very stable platform but were overweight, and when they took off that weight they were suddenly at the level where they've been since then.

"We focused very early on next year's car which I hope is a bet that it'll be a winning one. For sure it has some influence through the past two-thirds of the season we've been struggling because we didn't bring that many updates. It's been a generation of car that has even very difficult to understand. Bringing parts from the factory I think everyone has been surprised more than once that it doesn't correlate exactly."

Charles Leclerc, Ferrari

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Earlier this season, Fernando Alonso stated that he'd celebrate not having to drive this year's AMR25 car - and has his eyes keenly on 2026 when he'll get access to a car influenced by Adrian Newey for the first time.

He says that 2026 might need to be used to "glue everything together" but is confident Aston Martin has the right people on board.

"Yeah, I think we're happy to say bye-bye to this year and obviously we've been not as fast as we were hoping," Alonso said.

"2024 was a tough and and challenging season and 2025 was just the, the big brother of that, so we're struggling and we don't hide from that. It's the last race.

"We want to finish in the best possible position and help the team in the constructors' championship, but yeah, looking forward to next year for sure.

"I mean, the factory is completed, wind tunnel is brand new and completed, and we are using it. We have Adrian Newey, Andy Cowell, Enrico Cardile, we have great people and great talent in the factory, We just need, you know, to put everything in place. There are new facilities, people are just a few months into the system.

"It won't be enough with these few months, so we need one full season to glue everything together."

Fernando Alonso, Aston Martin Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Pierre Gasly admits to being torn - at least, in the moment - on Alpine's decision to sacrifice almost all development in 2025 to progress in 2026, but believes the decision is "for the better".

Alpine has been rooted to the bottom of the constructors' standings, with Gasly having scored all of the team's 22 points. He reckoned that if the team had brought updates, it might have been in the reckoning for a higher constructors' finish, but at the detriment of next year.

"Many times I look at the ranking and I'm like, 'OK, what if we had this on the car, what if we had that..."

"I think what I care about at the end is just making sure that I'm able to provide my best, my best to the team, Because ultimately I want to achieve much bigger things in F1. I just want to know that I'm able to do it whenever the moment comes to me.

"It's always nicer if you can be 6th or 5th or 4th instead of 9th. I must say I'm quite happy that the team took this very aggressive approach, and I think I would have been slightly more annoyed if we would have tried to push the development 2-3 months further to actually get what, 8th, 9th in the championship, and actually affect next year.

"I'm quite optimistic and and confident for next year just based on the sort of decisions we took. It was a rough, eight months and it hasn't been really fun, But I think it's for the better."

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Ollie Bearman addressed the abuse that fellow F1 rookie Kimi Antonelli received in the wake of the Qatar Grand Prix, calling those responsible the "scum of the earth".

Antonelli was wrongly accused of moving out of the way of Lando Norris in Qatar by senior Red Bull figures and, although they apologised for their remarks, it was too late to stop the 19-year-old Italian from receiving a deluge of unwarranted abuse.

"Generally it's always the case that people [who abuse others] behind the screen are horrible and they're scum of the earth, really. I don't think they should be doing that type of stuff to someone.

"You know, like, I understand that people who've been in F1 for a very long time can get used to it and people who are rookies, it may be their first experience, you know, having that type of criticism, but that criticism is an absolute joke. It shouldn't be tolerated and I know the FIA are doing everything they can to stop that, but the problem is these sad people giving those types of criticisms. It's a joke, you know.

"We're putting our lives on the line to entertain people and to, you know, give the people who are passionate for the sport a good time and you have people like that who are just hurting people and that's not just racing, that's also their personal life and I just think people are terrible. "

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes, Oliver Bearman, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Dom Gibbons / LAT Images via Getty Images

No rest for the wicked, it seems; Esteban Ocon and Ollie Bearman will be flying to Italy after the Abu Dhabi weekend is over to get their first taste of Haas' 2026 car in the Ferrari simulator.

Haas boss Ayao Komatsu wanted both drivers to maintain focus on 2025, and thus has suggested that both drivers hold fire on trying the new car before the season is over.

"As soon as this is finished, we are flying - both me and Ollie - to the team in Maranello, and we are driving the 2026 car," Ocon explained.

"It was very much a team's decision, not for us to focus on the 26 stuff in terms of driving, in terms of, driving style, technique and everything before this season was finished. Ayao was very clear on that.

"He wanted us to focus completely on this season, which is very important for the team. We've done meetings because we had to in terms of technicality and some stuff that we had to decide very early on with the team. But the work for us is going to really start post Abu Dhabi testing."

On Haas' title partnership with Toyota: "It is great news, Toyota is a brand that I really enjoy working with. I'm not saying that because they are working with us, I really mean it; they have great values, they have great respect, they are passionate about racing.

"They are petrolheads basically, and that's so cool to see when we visited them in Japan, they've put us in on the gravel track, and they've put us in the in the craziest track I've ever seen, on the road, and I've tested the WRC car at Goodwood. It's fantastic honestly to work with them."

Esteban Ocon trying out WRC cars with Takamoto Katsuta

Photo by: Toyota Racing

We've got another bumper crop of younger drivers as the teams look to fill their quota of young drivers (the regular drivers must vacate their seats twice a year in FP1, unless they began the year as a rookie).

McLaren - Pato O'Ward in for Oscar PiastriRed Bull - Arvid Lindblad in for Yuki TsunodaFerrari - Arthur Leclerc in for Lewis HamiltonWilliams - Luke Browning in for Alex AlbonRacing Bulls - Ayumu Iwasa in for Liam LawsonAston Martin - Jak Crawford in for Lance Stroll, Cian Shields in for Fernando AlonsoHaas - Ryo Hirakawa in for Esteban OconAlpine - Paul Aron in for Pierre GaslyMercedes and Sauber have already fulfilled the rules on FP1 drivers.

Arvid Lindblad, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Michael Potts / LAT Images via Getty Images

Alex Albon has heaped praise on his Williams team for delivering a car with which he was able to enjoy his best F1 season. Albon opened the year with fifth place in Australia, and sits ninth in the championship with 73 points.

"I would say my best season yet in many ways I feel like, obviously the car I think it takes credit for most of that," Albon stated.

"I haven't changed so much my application into this year but the car and the, what the guys and girls have done at the factory have made a huge step this year.

"I've been with this team for four years now, and this has been clearly the biggest step out of the four years from year to year. It's been enjoyable, been fun to be able to race against some of the top teams in some certain tracks."

On recent form tailing off: "Towards the end of the year, not ideal, but generally pace has been strong, just either myself, I've made a couple of mistakes - Vegas and Baku kind of stand out to me - but then, the other ones have just not gone my way, just kind of what it was like for Carlos at the beginning of the year."

Alexander Albon, Williams

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Hoping that one of its drivers ends up taking the title, McLaren has made a few colourful addendums to its livery for this year's finale.

McLaren Abu Dhabi GP special livery

Carlos Sainz backed Lando Norris to win this year's F1 title, noting that Abu Dhabi is "a Lando track" and mentioned the Briton's win at the circuit last year.

Norris beat Sainz to the win by 5.5s last season, and will be hoping to close out this year's championship with a similar result.

"I do have an interest obviously and I will be following very closely, closely also I think everyone knows how well I get on with Lando and obviously I wish Lando the best possible outcome in that sense," Sainz remarked.

"I also have a lot of respect for Max and Oscar, and I wish them the best, but I think Abu Dhabi is a Lando track. It's good for him that I think the finale is in Abu Dhabi, which is from my experience being his teammate here is one of his best tracks at driving.

"The win he took last year in front of me still hurts and he dominated last year a race in front of me. It's a Lando track and it's a McLaren track, so I think he, he plays with that advantage.

"Still going into the last weekend, having to finish on the podium is never easy, even if you drive a McLaren and I think he needs to execute a perfect weekend and I believe he, given how well he's responded under pressure recently, I think he can do it."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, Carlos Sainz, Williams

Photo by: Bryn Lennon / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Nico Hulkenberg says he'll be keeping an eye on the screens around the track to follow F1's title battle between Max Verstappen, Lando Norris, and Oscar Piastri.

The German praised Verstappen for his recent form, and reckons his experience in battling for titles will stand the four-time champion in good stead.

"He's had such a good run recently, so strong with no mistakes and just absolutely been been flawless and and killing it," Hulkenberg said.

"He's behind, 12 points is quite a lot, but obviously we know mathematically it's possible and we know crazy things can happen. I think he obviously knows how to fight for a title, and I think pressure is not an issue for him.

"He's got nothing to lose really."

Nico Hulkenberg, Sauber

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Gabriel Bortoleto has had his share of rookie moments over 2025, but he's also been able to prove his worth at Sauber across the season with plenty of impressive moments through the year.

The Brazilian picked Hungary, where he finished sixth, as his best race of the year.

"Main highlights, I can't forget to say Budapest. I think it was so far my best race of the season," he said.

"I think [it was a] great quali - Q3 - and then making a move in lap 1 and then having very good management of the tyres and finishing the race in P6. It was great because I think that was pure pace and, and very enjoyable.

"There were many other races, you know, Austria first points, Monza, Spa - I think they were very good races as well."

Gabriel Bortoleto, Sauber

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Some early news from the weekend: Haas has a new title sponsor for 2026. Toyota picks up the title deal from MoneyGram under its Toyota Gazoo Racing motorsport brand - and thus, the team will race as TGR Haas F1 Team next year.

Good morning folks, and welcome to the start of our live coverage of F1's season finale at the Yas Marina Circuit - and we've got a three-way title decider coming our way!

Who's going to win: Norris, Verstappen, or Piastri? It'll be a thrill-a-minute ride on Sunday night.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Ahmad AlShehab / NurPhoto via Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/isack-hadjar-has-no-expectations-for-tough-red-bull-f1-seat-starting-from-scratch/10782185/
DATE: 2025

claimed he has no expectations for his move to Red Bull in 2026 as he will be "starting from scratch".

The French-Algerian driver is set to join four-time champion  at the Milton Keynes outfit as he replaces . The Japanese driver will move to a reserve driver role with the team, and Red Bull junior Arvid Lindblad has secured a seat in Hadjar's place at  next year.

"It's a very good moment in my career, that's for sure," Hadjar explained during the press conference in Abu Dhabi. "For all the hard work through the years being rewarded now, obviously it's just the beginning of a new journey.

"But I'm very excited and stepping into a new era of Formula 1 as well. I think it's very good timing."

Hadjar will join Red Bull at the change of the regulations in the championship.

"I have no expectations at all, because starting from scratch - everyone. The work is going to be done.

"I'm just really looking forward to January, February, working with the team, getting to know the people. It's going to be crucial to try and be ahead a bit."

Isack Hadjar, Racing Bulls Team

Photo by: Andrew Ferraro / LAT Images via Getty Images

Red Bull has struggled to find a team-mate for Verstappen who has been able to extract the same level of performance out of the car. After  was replaced for 2025 by , the New Zealander only competed in two race weekends before he found himself replaced by Tsunoda. Now, the Japanese driver will be replaced by Hadjar.

Despite the recent history in the seat alongside Verstappen, Hadjar is confident. When asked what his mindset is going into the seat, Hadjar added: "Well, it's not true. It's not the same car at all next year. As I said, we're going to get the car we have. The team is going to build this car. I have to adapt to that car, and Max will have to do the same job. If the car goes in one direction, at least I'll be there to feel the change.

"And ideally, I contribute to that change. That would be the ideal scenario. I've never repeated, every year. I've always competed in different cars, so I don't know what it's like doing the same thing, the same job. I think I'm pretty decent at adapting, so I'm actually confident."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/liam-lawson-yuki-tsunoda-demotion-is-proof-f1-is-a-very-very-tough-game/10782155/
DATE: 2025

reflected on his journey from being replaced at Red Bull after just two races of the season to securing a contract extension with .

Red Bull and its sister team announced earlier this week that  is set to be promoted to a seat alongside four-time champion  at the Milton Keynes outfit. Lawson will remain at Racing Bulls and will be joined by Red Bull junior driver Arvid Lindblad.

"I definitely think about that phrase [everything happens for a reason] a lot, and I always try and tell myself that sometimes in the bad moments," Lawson told .

"At the start of the year, obviously, I was having a lot of those sorts of thoughts with what was going on, but at the same time, it's hard to say that now because I think to be in the sport, we all believe in ourselves, obviously. I think you couldn't be here if you thought that somebody was better than you.

"And I would have liked to have thought that with the right amount of time, I would have got my head around it honestly, because for me, two races was... I honestly don't even really remember them. They were so short, but I do believe in that phrase sometimes, and I do think that there are a lot of things that have happened this year that have made me a lot stronger, and I've learned a lot from."

Liam Lawson, Racing Bulls Team

Photo by: James Sutton / Formula 1 / Formula Motorsport Ltd via Getty Images

The changes within Red Bull mean that  is out of a full-time seat in 2026 and will instead move into a reserve driver role.

"I think it's tricky, because in the same way that I would feel for anybody that's not in Formula 1 that's worked a long time to get there, but at the same time, there are a lot of guys who don't get the opportunity ever," Lawson said when asked if he felt bad for the Japanese driver. "And he's had a few years in the sport. It's a very, very tough game, which obviously I've learned as well."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/arvid-lindblad-exclusive-first-interview-f1-racing-bulls/10781899/
DATE: 2025

By graduating to  in 2026, Britain's  has delivered on his own childhood vision that he would somehow make it to Formula 1. Speaking exclusively to Motorsport.com, he tells all about his ambition, his Swedish-Indian family heritage and a promise he made to .

Tuesday's Racing Bulls announcement  seat in 2026, replacing the -bound . The Surrey-born youngster will be the fifth British racer on the 2026 grid and the 20th Red Bull junior driver to make it to F1, having been fast-tracked through the single-seater ladder since he joined in 2021 as a karting phenom.

Life has moved quickly for Lindblad, but making it all the way to Formula 1 was never just a distant dream. Despite the odds, it was a concrete ambition that he was somehow convinced he would achieve from a very early age. "It's been my dream to be in F1 since I started this journey when I was five, so having that come true is very special," Lindblad tells Motorsport.com in his first interview as an F1 driver.

"I don't come from a motorsport background. It was really a passion that I drove myself. When I was three, my dad put me on a motocross bike for the first time because he'd done a tiny bit when he was younger. That didn't last very long, as it was a bit too much for my mum. But then I went karting for the first time when I was five, and I just loved it instantly.

"After the first time, I already knew it was something I wanted to do. My earliest racing memories are from when I was four, when I sat down and watched F1 with my dad. And I remember asking, ‘How do I get there one day? Is it possible? What do you have to do?’

"I don't really know why — maybe I was a bit naive — but I just had this inner belief that I'd be there. Not in an arrogant way; it was more like I knew I wanted to be in F1 and I was going to do anything to make that happen. From the moment I started, I never envisioned a future where I wasn't. I always believed that I would be in F1."

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lindblad also holds Swedish nationality through his father and has Indian roots through his maternal side of the family, two sides of his heritage he connects strongly with. "My paternal grandparents still live in Sweden, so I visit them as often as I can," he says. "My mum's parents lived in the UK, and they held on to their traditional Indian roots and culture. I've always enjoyed eating my grandma's amazing Indian food. I went to India for the first time last year, and I was really engrossed in the Indian culture.

"When I look at my parents, the biggest thing I've learned from them is that I'm very fortunate to be born into a family where I have the opportunity to be a racing driver. Because unfortunately, with the way the sport is, it's not an opportunity that everyone has. My dad comes from a small village in Smaland and very humble beginnings. He had a job when he was 11, cleaning toilets and working a paper route. He really worked hard his whole life to create the opportunities that I have, and I have massive respect for him.

"The same goes for my mum. My grandparents were involved in the Partition; they lived in a part of India that became Pakistan, and they lost everything. They had to work extremely hard. They ended up moving to the UK to become doctors. There's a portrait of my grandmother in a museum because she worked as a GP until she was 82. She only retired a couple of years ago.

"I'm very proud that I come from a family that had to work for the opportunities they created. And I'm very fortunate that I'm not quite in that position, but I still try to be humble and down to earth. The racing is something between me and my dad. Education is very important to my mum, so the idea of me missing a bit of school was very difficult for her at first. She was saying to my dad: ‘If he doesn't have what it takes, can we please stop? Because it's expensive and we need to do other things.’ But I was always working hard and driving pretty well, so it was hard to give up!"

Arvid Lindblad was a two-time finalist of the Aston Martin Autosport BRDC Young Driver of the Year award

Photo by: Motorsport Images

It turns out Lindblad did show glimpses of “the right stuff” in karting, winning the LGM Series and the British Championship in the IAME Cadet series in 2017. It was the sign to take his career to the European scene, leading to titles and a collection of top-three finishes in OK-J and OK at both European and world championship level, including winning the inaugural 2020 Champions of the Future event in OK-J, and the WSK Euro Series and Final Cup the following year - succeeding  in the former.

It was in 2021 that the then 14-year-old had a brief encounter with Norris, when the  driver launched his own karting chassis at the same track Lindblad was driving. "I told my friend: ‘I think I'm going up to Lando.’ And he was like: ‘Oh no, you don't have the guts.’ I didn't really know what I was going to say, and the first thing that came out was: ‘I want you to remember me. I'm going to see you in five years.’ I'd gotten a bit of inspiration from the –Ron Dennis story, saying, ‘I'm going to drive one of your cars one day.’

"I think he was taken aback a bit and said something like: ‘Oh, that's nice to think of it.’ I'm sure there are lots of people that say those kinds of things, so it didn't really mean anything at the time. But like I said, I had this belief I would make it to F1. I had it when I said that to Lando, and I have that same sort of belief today. It's a funny story to look back on, because it will become true. It will be five years."

Lindblad is mentored by Formula E champion Oliver Rowland.

Photo by: Chris Walker

By that time, Lindblad's career had already shifted into a higher gear after his father Stefan received a call from an unknown number when the Lindblads were out testing in Portugal. "We were at breakfast in the hotel when the phone started ringing," he recounts. "I don't remember the number, but at the bottom it said ‘Graz, Austria’. My dad had a bit of a skip in his step, and he said Helmut Marko wanted to meet us. I was excited to meet the man who had put world champions like  and  in F1.

"It's funny because I hear and read things, but that's not what I experienced. I've always had a really good relationship with Dr Marko. We've always been very honest with each other. He doesn't really like excuses. I don't really like to make excuses. We've always been very open, which has helped me develop. I'm grateful for the opportunity, but I also have to thank the entire Red Bull Junior Programme. Rocky [Guillaume Roquelin] has been very involved, and there's a whole team behind it."

Much like  rookie Antonelli, who is 12 months his senior, things started moving at breakneck speed once Lindblad switched to racing cars towards the end of 2022. He took third in his first full season of Italian F4 in 2023 and won the prestigious Macau Grand Prix, which set him on a path to F3 and F2. But crucially, it also convinced Marko and Red Bull that Lindblad could be the next heir in line after Hadjar, preparing him for F1 with private testing and simulator work.

So, how ready does Lindblad feel for his biggest challenge yet? "Being honest, I think I'm not 100% ready, but that's normal," he acknowledges. "I've progressed through the ranks very quickly, so I'm used to being in the position where I'm sort of thrown in the deep end and have to find a way to figure it out. I have full confidence in myself that I'll find a way."

Lindblad made his F1 testing debut with the AlphaTauri AT04 in Imola. "Being honest, I think I'm not 100% ready, but that's normal."

The  make predictions impossible. But Lindblad is keen to become the best version of himself. When asked what will make 2026 a success, he replies: "What's going to make 2026 a good year is that by working hard and learning a lot, I'm going to come out a much better driver than I went in.

"It is a clean slate for everyone with the new cars, so you could say it's an advantage to come in now. But there are two sides to the coin. F1 will be very different to what we have now, so I still think the experienced guys will have an advantage. There's a lot to learn, and I need to just focus on that and getting the best out of myself."

In 2026 Lindblad will be thrown in at the deep end once more, and he will still have everything to prove. But he has also already proven one thing to himself: he has made it to Formula 1, just like he always envisioned.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-qatar-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-race-1126135/1126136/
DATE: 2025

Well that Qatar Grand Prix gave us a whole lot more than we bargained for. So much for a straight-forward snoozefest in Doha.

The best part? In a few days we get to do it all again in Abu Dhabi. After 23 grand prix weekends, three drivers are still in mathematical contention for the 2025 Formula 1 world championship. Bring it on!

See you then, and thanks for following along with us.

And  courtesy of double-barreled F1 reporter Jake Boxall-Legge.

Max Verstappen’s Qatar GP win creates an F1 world title decider for the Abu Dhabi finale, with Oscar Piastri second and Lando Norris fourth after McLaren strategy blunder

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Lars Baron / LAT Images via Getty Images

Here are  from today's race courtesy of our team. And it's not exactly making for pretty reading for McLaren.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Lars Baron / LAT Images via Getty Images

In the constructors' table Mercedes now leads Red Bull by 34 points, which should be enough to hold onto second. Ferrari is going to finish fourth, while Williams is now guaranteed to finish fifth.

1 Norris 4082 Verstappen 3963 Piastri 392Game on.

Does Max believe he can win the title? "It's all possible now. We'll see, I don't worry about it too much..."

"I cannot be more proud," says Carlos Sainz. "We got everything right today. We improved in so many areas and today there were a few opportunities and we grabbed all of them by executing a perfect race. I'm over the moon with the podium because it was unexpected."

Oscar Piastri "Clearly we didn't get it right tonight, I drove the best race I could and there was nothing left out there. In hindsight it's pretty obvious what we should have done, but we'll discuss it as a team. It's not all bad [in the championship] but obviously tough to swallow at the moment."

Verstappen is first up with Martin Brundle. "This was an incredible race for us. We made the right call as a team to box under the safety car."

Asked about McLaren's decision not to box under the safety car: "That's an interesting move..."

Race strategist Hannah Schmitz gets the honours to go up on the podium to collect the constructors' trophy.

It's a huge celebration in parc ferme between Verstappen and his engineers. He's somehow still alive in the title fight.

Sainz has also leapt over the barriers into his crew. Piastri's reaction is...more reserved.

It looks like Isack Hadjar suffered a retirement with two laps to go, dropping him out of sixth. That's horrific luck.

Ironically it elevates Yuki Tsunoda, the man he is set to replace at Red Bull next year, into a point.

1 Verstappen2 Piastri 3 Sainz 4 Norris5 Antonelli  6 Russell 7 Alonso 8 Leclerc 9 Lawson10 Tsunoda

Oscar Piastri is absolutely gobsmacked. "Speechless, I have no words".

How has McLaren managed to lose him this race? It will be a long debrief over at McLaren.

Behind Piastri, it's another brilliant podium for Carlos Sainz and Williams, as Norris pays a big price for McLaren's fumble by stranding in fourth.

Max Verstappen has done it! Another flawless performance from the four-time world champion, and with it a fighting chance to secure a fifth next week!

It was Turn 10 where Antonelli drifted off in Sainz's dirty air. Norris swooped past and is now trailing Sainz, but with no more straights to pass.

But Antonelli goes wide!! Norris takes fourth and with it two extra points.

Can't really see it happening. Norris hasn't got the overspeed on Antonelli that the McLarens had earlier in the race.

Antonelli needs two more good exits out of the final corner to keep fourth. He has also picked up Sainz's DRS.

1 Verstappen2 Piastri 103 Sainz 234 Antonelli 245 Norris 256 Hadjar 497 Russell 508 Alonso 539 Leclerc 5610 Lawson 61

Piastri is still gaining but nowhere near enough, he is still 10 seconds behind.

Sainz is reporting understeer and is starting to fall into the clutches of Antonelli and Norris.

Five to go. Verstappen is cruising to win number 70. And a lifeline to take a fifth consecutive title.

Not close enough starting lap 52. Norris has four more attempts down to Turn 1.

Norris can make his life a whole lot easier by clearing Antonelli. The McLaren is within DRS range.

And to think McLaren is easily quickest today and could have scored a 1-2 to punt the Dutchman out of the fight altogether. Good grief.

If it stays like this Verstappen will be 10 points behind Norris...

So if Verstappen wins and Norris finishes third in Abu Dhabi, Verstappen takes a fifth title on countback.

That's 10 laps to go in this intriguing Qatar Grand Prix. Hulkenberg and Gasly really made this into a gripping strategy battle with their collision.

Piastri still trails Verstappen by 14 seconds, who has been given the go-ahead to push.

Another tank slapper for Norris, but he is closing the gap to Antonelli.

Sainz agrees with us: "I think Norris will struggle to pass Antonelli with the pace we're doing."

1 Verstappen2 Piastri 153 Sainz 214 Antonelli 235 Norris 276 Hadjar 447 Russell 458 Alonso 489 Leclerc 4910 Stroll 54

It's a 360-degree spin for Fernando Alonso, who loses sixth and seventh to Hadjar and Russell.

A 2.7s stop for Norris as he rejoins in fifth behind Sainz and Antonelli. If his car really is damaged, he'll be in trouble for that podium.

Piastri fires in a massive 1m22.9s while Norris pits from the lead and drops to third.

1 Norris2 Verstappen +0.83 Piastri +17

Can Piastri close a 16-second gap to Verstappen, and then overtake him, over the next 14 laps? Surely not.

His team agrees to bring Piastri in, but they're putting the Australian on.... hard tyres?

It's an unbelievable 1.8s stop from McLaren by the way. They have made some pitstop errors this year, but this is not one of them. Blimey.

Funnily enough Norris is now helping Piastri by holding up Verstappen in second...

Piastri still wants to come in for softs ASAP.

Piastri dips two wheels onto the gravel and nearly bins it! He is doing everything he can to win this race. But it's not going to be enough.

"Maybe we need to box now and chase him down."

Ollie Bearman gets an old-fashioned 10-second stop-and-go penalty for an unsafe release. That's a big penalty as it involves a safety issue.

Norris has gone off and is asking his team to check for damage. It tallies with why he is losing four tenths per lap to Piastri and three to Verstappen behind him.

Norris is losing ground, he is not going to beat Verstappen today.

1 Piastri2 Norris 6.83 Verstappen 9.0

Some lucid thinking from Piastri: "We need to weigh up what the best idea is. Trying to get a safety car or just beating him on pace?"

To get a safety car, Piastri should stay out on his mediums for the full 25-lap stint, then a short blast on softs.

The more optimal stint for pace is to push harder now and come in sooner.
