======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/perez-red-bull-verstappen-2021/4929130/
DATE: 2020

that outgoing Racing Point driver Perez was set take Albon's seat, Red Bull confirmed on Friday that the Mexican would be joining as Max Verstappen's teammate for next year.

Perez has joined Red Bull on an initial one-year contract, while Albon will  after less than 18 months racing for the team, “with a key focus on 2022 development, simulator work and tyre testing”.

“Alex is a valued member of the team and we thought long and hard about this decision,” said Red Bull team principal Christian Horner.

“Having taken our time to evaluate all the relevant data and performances we have decided that Sergio is the right driver to partner Max for 2021 and look forward to welcoming him to Red Bull Racing.

“Alex remains an important part of our team as test and reserve Driver with a key focus on 2022 development and we would like to thank him for his hard work and contribution.”

Perez's arrival marks the final major move in the driver market for 2021, and leaves Mercedes as the only team yet to formally confirm its line-up, although a

Perez becomes the first driver to sign for Red Bull from outside of its junior team, Toro Rosso, since Mark Webber joined from Williams in 2007.

It comes off the back of Perez's most successful year in F1 that saw him  and finish the season fourth in the drivers' championship.

Racing Point announced in September that  with the Silverstone-based squad, making way for

It left Perez short on options to stay on the grid, which narrowed further after Alfa Romeo and Haas opted against signing him. Contact with Williams' new owners failed to go far as it stood by its existing line-up, making Red Bull Perez's only chance to stay on the grid.

He said he was "at peace" with a possible exit from F1, and that he already had options to return in 2022 should he be

But Perez's upswing in form coincided with Albon's struggles at Red Bull as he continually failed to match Verstappen, who scored more than double his teammate's points tally this year.

Red Bull said repeatedly that it wanted to give Albon as much time as possible to claim the seat,

A return of just two third-place finishes compared to Verstappen's haul of two wins and nine further podiums left Albon in a precarious position, prompting the call to replace him with Perez.

Motorsport.com understands Albon was officially informed of the decision in a meeting with Red Bull team principal Christian Horner on Friday afternoon, shortly before the announcement was made.

It marks an abrupt end to Albon's time racing for Red Bull following a shock promotion just 12 races into his F1 career, replacing the struggling Pierre Gasly midway through the 2019 season. While Gasly has since flourished upon returning to Toro Rosso - now AlphaTauri - Red Bull ruled out a possible switch back.

Horner confirmed earlier this month that there was no chance for Albon to make a similar return to Red Bull's sister team, which has  to partner Gasly in 2021.

Perez will become the fourth different driver to race next to Verstappen at Red Bull since 2018, following Albon, Gasly and Daniel Ricciardo.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/hamilton-red-bill-fight-hands-2021/4926875/
DATE: 2020

Max Verstappen dominated the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix to give Red Bull its second victory of the season, leading home the Mercedes duo of Valtteri Bottas and Hamilton, who finished third.

Verstappen led every single lap of the race at the Yas Marina Circuit, as neither Bottas nor Hamilton managed to get close to the Dutchman as they struggled with their tyres.

Although the result had no impact on the final championship standings - Mercedes and Hamilton both wrapped up their respective titles last month - Hamilton felt the race proved Mercedes would face a sterner challenge from Red Bull next year.

"We've obviously got a fight on our hands next year," Hamilton said following the race in Abu Dhabi.

"Without a doubt, these guys are going to be strong, as this car [Verstappen] is driving now is next year's car pretty much, and the same for us.

"I'm excited for that challenge, and that battle that we hopefully will get."

Bottas was able to clinch second place in the drivers' championship despite Verstappen's victory, ultimately finishing nine points clear in the final standings.

Bottas echoed Hamilton's thoughts, saying the defeat to Red Bull at the final round of the year would only serve as added motivation for Mercedes heading into the winter.

"If we think about the big pictures, now in this team, being beaten by Red Bull at the last race of the season, for sure it motivates us even more to work hard over the winter for next year to make sure this doesn't happen again," Bottas said.

Mercedes F1 chief Toto Wolff called the defeat a "slap on the wrist" for Mercedes, while trackside engineering director Andrew Shovlin said the team now had to work to understand why it was so uncompetitive at the front.

"Fundamentally today, we didn't have the best car," said Shovlin after the race.

"We need to look at whether we could have got more out of it, whether it was an issue with where we positioned it in terms of set-up or whether it's something to do with this circuit that's suiting the Red Bull.

"There's a lot there that simply we don't understand right, and that's just going to sit on the job list of things for us to get stuck into over the next week or so.

"We didn't have a difference in car pace, so in a way, it was lost yesterday, which was a close battle, but looking at it today, unless we had a car on pole, I think we would have struggled."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/albon-mercedes-strategy-abu-dhabi/4926219/
DATE: 2020

Albon put in what he felt was his best qualifying performance of the season to earn fifth on the grid for what could be a decisive race as he tries to hang onto his seat for next year.

Red Bull’s management has given him until the final event of the season to prove himself in the face of strong competition from Sergio Perez.

The top three qualifiers, Verstappen, Valtteri Bottas and Lewis Hamilton, all qualified on medium tyres.

However, Albon made a mistake on his medium run in Q2 and will thus start on softs, as does surprise fourth-placed man Lando Norris.

For most of the season Verstappen has been left to fight Hamilton and Bottas alone, giving Mercedes more strategy options.

“Yeah, that's the goal,” said Albon when asked the plan was to help the Dutchman take on the Mercedes drivers.

“Obviously, it's a bit of a shame because I ran a bit wide on my medium tyre run. And we didn't want to take the risk to run the mediums again, for Q2 run two, so we put the softs on, which isn't ideal, because the deg is quite high here. So that first stint might be a little bit difficult.

“But the plan is to stay close, and to be there in the mix. We've got Lando in between us. He did a very good lap, actually, so we'll have to be mindful of that.

“And of course, the McLarens are around me, and they're the best starters on the grid. So we'll focus on a good launch and trying to be in there and trying to disturb the Mercedes strategy.”

Albon felt that he has made progress in understanding the RB16.

“We know what's clicked,” he said. “I think it's important that of course, understanding why.

"And I think you can already see it, if you watch Max's onboard, if you watch the laps that he does, the car is never still, it's always on the edge, it's always moving around.

“And especially the car is on the edge and the rear is quite sensitive, to be able to have that feeling, that confidence to run that much front in the car, let's say, and then to be comfortable with it.

“That's what's really important and that bit was quite difficult, especially at the start of the year, but it feels like as I said, we did some things behind the scenes and I just feel more more comfortable to be on that kind of neutral side of the car balance, and being able to wrestle the car a bit more.”

Regarding his future, Albon insists he doesn’t know what the timing would be on a decision from Red Bull.

“On my side it's just more about doing the best job I can right now, and having a good day today is obviously positive,” he said.

“Of course I would have wanted to be a bit better, but I've still got tomorrow to do a good job.

"At least on see my side it's more about doing the best job I can, and making sure I've done everything that is in my control to get the seat for next year.

“I mean, truthfully, [the timing] doesn't change too much. Because firstly, I've been in this position many a time, not knowing what I'm gonna do at this time of the year. But also it doesn't change how I go into the race.

“Of course, it would be nice to know. But it is the holidays after this. So obviously with family, and there's no more races coming up after this one. So I won't be constantly thinking about it, I'll be eating turkey.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/albon-q2-exit-sakhir-qualifying/4922313/
DATE: 2020

Albon is currently fighting for his Red Bull future as the team weighs up a possible swoop for free agent Sergio Perez for 2021, with a decision due to be made at the end of the season.

After scoring his second F1 podium in Bahrain last weekend, Albon’s form took a dip in qualifying on Saturday around the outer loop layout of the track as he was eliminated in Q2, finishing 12th.

It marked Albon’s worst qualifying display since the British Grand Prix in July.

The Red Bull driver felt a decision not to run the soft compound tyre in FP3 had backfired, leaving him lacking confidence as the track got quicker throughout qualifying and his rivals made improvements.

“In FP3, we did some balance changes to fix the car going into qualifying,” Albon said.

“But I think lacking some soft tyre running in FP3 could have hurt us. We got what we were intending to do, but with the soft tyre, you gain a lot of front grip at apex, and it was just tricky to balance.

"We were lacking some front in some places, front end, and having too much front in other places on the soft tyre. So it wasn’t so simple as fine tuning it with flaps or front wing, which is normally the case.

“I was pretty happy with my Q2 run one lap. That was it really.”

Albon lapped less than four-tenths of a second slower than Red Bull teammate Max Verstappen in Q2, but the short layout and quick lap times in Bahrain meant he was 11 positions behind in the classification.

Asked if he could tell where the gap to Verstappen was, Albon said it was “very clear”.

“I could tell you I was slow without looking at the data,” Albon said.

“It’s honestly just a bit of a lack of FP3 running on the soft tyre hurt us, because it was so different. The medium and the hard is actually quite similar in terms of a feeling, but the soft is quite different.

“It’s a tricky one, and obviously it’s a lesson learned and it's more experience from my side. But it just meant that really, when it came to qualifying, it was just that it was tricky to get the low speed and the high-speed, which is Turn 7, Turn 8.

“That was the main area where I lost out on feeling well-balanced.”

Albon conceded the result was “frustrating” after feeling he was in a good position during practice on Friday, with the qualifying result leaving him in need of a fightback in the race.

“It was looking good on Friday, and truthfully, even Saturday in the beginning was OK,” Albon said.

“It was just one of those things where you drive your first lap in qualifying, and it’s like, ‘oh, this is very different to what we’ve been getting the whole weekend’.

“I’m just going to have a look, speak with the engineers, figure out where it is, and that’s it.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/verstappen-mercedes-without-hamilton-bahrain/4920890/
DATE: 2020

Seven-time world champion Hamilton will miss this weekend’s Sakhir Grand Prix after testing positive for COVID-19 on Monday.

His place at Mercedes will be taken by Williams regular George Russell, who will partner Valtteri Bottas.

Red Bull driver Verstappen has finished second to Hamilton on five occasions this season, but did not believe the absence of the Mercedes driver would improve his chances of winning in Bahrain.

“There is no Lewis, but there’s Valtteri and George, driving the fastest car in the field,” Verstappen said.

“It will still be very tough and not easy, especially with the layout we have.

“Lap times will be very close, also with the guys behind us from last week. I don't expect it to be very easy out there.”

F1 will use the high-speed outer loop layout of the Bahrain International Circuit for the first time this weekend, promising lap times of under 55 seconds and just four braking points.

Red Bull tended to struggle on the low downforce tracks earlier in the 2020 season, particularly at Monza.

“[The layout] will only help the cars which have a lot of power, so I expect it to be a little bit more difficult for us,” Verstappen said.

“I really hope it’s not going to be like Monza, but we have to wait and see. The track of course is a bit different compared to Monza. There are still I think a few corners where you can make a bit more of a difference.

“Monza you run really low downforce, everyone runs very, very low downforce. You just really lack on the straights.

“I think here there will be a bit of difference in terms of downforce levels. But yeah, let’s hope and pray it’s going to be better.”

Verstappen finished second in Bahrain last weekend, but was left unhappy that Red Bull had not been more aggressive with its race strategy.

The Dutchman said the team had reviewed and discussed it, and was hopeful of a bolder approach this weekend.

“I just commented on last weekend that we were a bit conservative, so I can only really comment on that,” Verstappen said.

“We have analysed it, and I think that’s good. We’ll see what we can do this weekend, see if we can do it better.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/albon-red-bull-future-decision/4918603/
DATE: 2020

Albon is currently under pressure to retain his seat alongside Max Verstappen for 2021 as Red Bull’s bosses ponder replacing him with a more experienced driver.

Red Bull has openly said that if it were to replace Albon for next year, it would look outside of its existing driver pool, with Sergio Perez and Nico Hulkenberg both possible options.

Albon has struggled to match Verstappen’s form throughout the 2020 season, but scored his second podium finish with a run to third in Bahrain on Sunday.

Although Albon spent most of the race in fourth, trailing Verstappen by as much as 30 seconds at points, he was able to clinch a third thanks to Racing Point driver Perez’s late retirement.

“I think Alex drove a good race today,” Red Bull team principal Christian Horner said after the race.

“Sergio was unlucky, Alex benefitted from his misfortune, and I think that’s what we’re needing to see from Alex.

“His recovery from Friday was strong. Obviously after the off that he had, he qualified fourth, he was there to capitalise on Sergio’s misfortune, and he’s finished on the podium.

“It’s our first double podium since Japan 2017. It’s our first podium in Bahrain since 2013. So I think today’s been a good day for Alex.”

The result marked only the second podium of Albon’s F1 career following his maiden rostrum scored at Mugello in September, appearing to boost his chances of staying with the team.

Horner confirmed that Red Bull was happy to give Albon the chance to maximise his chances in the last two races of the season, with no call to be made on his future until after the season finale in Abu Dhabi.

“No decision will be made until after the final race,” Horner said.

“We're giving him every opportunity, we want him to succeed. I think we've been clear with that all along and days like today help him, but there are still two further races.

“Sergio is doing the best possible job that he can to ensure that he remains under consideration, and today was Alex's good fortune with that podium.

“But Alex had a good day today, and of course there are still two further races to go.”

Perez dropped to fifth in the drivers’ championship as a result of his late retirement, slipping behind Renault’s Daniel Ricciardo, but still sits 15 points and four places clear of Albon in the standings.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/red-bull-verstappen-bahrain-strategy/4918613/
DATE: 2020

Verstappen scored a comfortable second place finish at the Bahrain International Circuit on Sunday, spending all but two laps of the race running in P2.

Verstappen sat around five seconds behind Hamilton nearing the first round of pit stops, but couldn’t try and get the undercut after Mercedes called in the race leader before Red Bull could stop.

It denied Verstappen a chance to get the undercut, while a slow second stop meant Hamilton could react one lap later without facing any pressure.

Red Bull ultimately pitted Verstappen for a third time in the closing stages to clinch the bonus point for the fastest lap, as well as covering off a potential late safety car.

Verstappen expressed his disappointment in the strategy after the race, believing the team should have brought him in for a first stop earlier to try and get the undercut on Hamilton.

“We weren’t strong on strategy today,” Verstappen said.

“Firstly we should have stopped earlier on that first run. We let Mercedes stop earlier, which I don’t understand, so there they won two seconds or something over us.

“Then you have to try and close the gap on that hard tyre, which actually worked pretty good. So there I managed to retrieve one and a half or two seconds, in the beginning. Then you lose that again.

“We had that slow pitstop, and then we had a pitstop I didn’t fully get. Of course, for the fastest lap it was fine, but it can always happen that someone else goes faster.

“Also because we had a red flag and a safety car, then a three-stop would never have worked anymore.

“I don’t know why they did that. I’m not saying that we would have beaten them today, because we just didn’t have the pace.

“But we could have done much better as a team on strategy.”

Asked about Verstappen’s complaints after the race, Red Bull team principal Christian Horner explained that pitting him any earlier in the first stint would have dropped him into traffic.

“The problem is that Lewis was just that little bit too quick,” Horner said.

“Losing the first eight laps under safety cars and red flags, we went from what could have been an optimal three-stop more towards a two-stop.

“The field didn’t spread out as much as you would have wanted in the first stint, because losing those eight laps, so if we’d have pitted, we’d have pitted into traffic.

“I’m not sure what else we could have done really. I think that if we’d have pitted a bit earlier on the first stop, he would have had a couple of cars to pass, and we wouldn’t have been within the undercut. They would have been easily able to cover it.

“Unfortunately Mercedes just had that little bit too much pace and tyre life today.”

Mercedes was forced to be on guard to Red Bull as Verstappen had an additional set of fresh hard tyres spare over Hamilton.

It gave Red Bull the opportunity to swap Verstappen from medium to hard tyres under the safety car, but Horner said the team feared it would cost the Dutchman on the restart.

“We looked at that, but we were concerned about the start performance,” Horner said.

“Starting on the dirty side of the grid for the restart, we were concerned that we might give up further places rather than gain them.

“We did well to retain the position to Sergio [Perez] into the first corner. Our concern was by starting on the hard tyre, we’d give up a bit too much start performance.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/albon-wet-turkey-qualfying-crash/4909840/
DATE: 2020

Albon was quick throughout the entertaining and unpredictable session, and admitted that he felt he could have done better than his eventual fourth place behind the two Racing Point drivers and his teammate Max Verstappen.

Although the Red Bull drivers were clearly better off in the tricky conditions than some of their rivals, Albon said that it had been a stressful afternoon.

“I can understand why people enjoy it,” he said when asked by Motorsport.com. “I would enjoy it if I wasn't driving.

“I could tell you it's not as fun in the car as it is on TV. When you're shifting to sixth gear, even seventh gear in the wet, and you're getting wheelspin and the car is aquaplaning across the track, that's not very fun.

“It's more about the danger of it, more than anything else. I think we've been lucky not to have a big crash today. We've had some close calls obviously, coming into Turn 3.

“I enjoy difficult weather, I enjoy difficult conditions, I enjoy when there's more to it than than a normal weekend. But at the same time, this is most probably a step towards excessively dangerous, really.”

Albon also highlighted a controversial moment in Q2 when the session started while yellow flags were out as a crane was still retrieving the spun Williams of Nicholas Latifi after an incident in the first session.

“That wasn't very good,” he said. “I imagined that we were trying to make sunset. And we rushed everything. But that was silly. And I'm sure we could have waited another five minutes for a crane to move."

“I think there must have been some misjudgement between them, because there's no way they did it on purpose.

“I mean, it was just hard to understand where the decision came from, because the crane was still on track, lifting Latifi, and we got the call out to go on to the track and wait at the end of the pit lane.

“I was expecting like a five minute signal. But it was one minute to go to green. And I was like, okay, they must have moved that crane pretty quickly. But obviously, it didn't have enough time.”

Regarding his own performance, Albon felt all had gone well until the switch to intermediates late in the last part of the session.

“It felt good until Q3, I struggled to get the tyres working, I think compared to other cars out there, especially on the extremes. And it was quite nice to drive, obviously following other cars, you can tell how difficult it was for some teams.

“Then come to Q3 once the inters came on - actually, to be fair, I think we most probably saw it coming a little bit on that Q1 run, a couple of cars and I would say only really Racing Point and maybe Lando, were the only ones who could actually get a time out of the inters. We had to box straight away, and put the extremes on.

“And it was the same thing when I went out in Q3, it was the same problem where I just couldn't switch them on. And it's kind of that thing, literally like one lap to the next you feel a peak of grip.

“But it never really came. So a bit frustrating, because obviously the whole weekend has been looking pretty strong. And I've been happy with how it's been going. So to be P4 is in one respect worse than it should have been.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/tech-front-wing-changes-red-bull-turkey/4909413/
DATE: 2020

Both Max Verstappen and Alex Albon appear to be more comfortable with the handling of their RB16 than recent weekends - even though there was zero grip on offer from the Istanbul track surface - and that could be down to some detail changes made at the front of the car.

Red Bull’s performance push has certainly helped it close the gap to Mercedes over the course of the season, and a focus of its development effort as been on its front wing.

There have been three changes made to its front wing this weekend, including a revised shape for the footplate arc, the blister in the curved section between the footplate and endplate and the Gurney tab mounted on the trailing edge of the footplate.

These might seem like very small alterations in isolation, but as a collective they will have much more of an effect.

Think of it as a daisy chain, with one link able to cause issues for the whole chain. This means that more often than not a change in one area will result in the designers having to go back and optimise the others, which turns into a constant game of push and pull to find the best arrangement.

The shape of the footplate is something that is in a constant state of flux, with teams trying various shapes and sizes for the footplate over the years.

A more arched solution had become en vogue for a number of years but we now seemingly find ourselves at a point where a flatter, boxier shape is preferred, much like the one we see Red Bull using here.

However, it’s the central portion of the wing that had actually been changed the most in the last few races, with Red Bull having introduced a crevice beneath the wing that required the designers to effectively steal real estate from the footplate and endplate, resulting in a blister appearing on the upper surface.

It’s still unclear if the crevice is part of a larger system that could be blowing the trailing edge of the endplate, or it simply has an effect on the pressure gradient.

But what is clear is that its size and shape will be affected by these revisions, as the blister created on the upper surface of the joint between the footplate and endplate has been altered.

Meanwhile, the Gurney tab that has previously been square with the trailing edge of the footplate is now angled. This creates a joint with the outermost rear corner, as the team clearly likes to play around with how the vortices that are formed in this region operate.

Red Bull has also arrived in Turkey with a new cape to try out, which features a letterbox-style inlet on either side of the section where it is drawn away from the main body of the nose.

The shape of the inlet suggests that airflow will be drawn from the upper surface to the underside to boost performance. It could be that the long cape it has run hasn’t been working as anticipated or providing the kind of aerodynamic consistency it would like.

Red Bull evaluated the different configurations during Friday’s free practice sessions, whilst the car was also fitted with kiel probe rakes to gather data on the performance of the parts.

This is crucial in the development cycle as it allows the team to assess whether the parts are performing as the team’s simulation work had anticipated.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/vips-red-bull-reserve-driver-turkey/4907694/
DATE: 2020

Vips, 20, has been part of the Red Bull junior programme since the end of 2018, and had been due to race in Super Formula this year, only for travel restrictions to complicate his plans.

Vips has instead made appearances in both F2 and the Formula Regional European Championship, and will now serve as Red Bull’s reserve driver in Istanbul this weekend.

Red Bull announced on Twitter that Vips had completed the required 300km in an F1 car to gain an FIA superlicence, meaning he would be eligible to race if required.

Vips will deputise for regular Red Bull and AlphaTauri reserves Sebastian Buemi and Sergio Sette Camara, both of whom are tied up with other commitments this weekend. Buemi is racing for Toyota in the FIA World Endurance Championship season finale in Bahrain.

Vips currently has 32 superlicence points to his name accrued through junior categories, but benefits from the recent changes to the FIA requirements that allow drivers with more than 30 points to be eligible if their programmes were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Vips is yet to make an appearance in Super Formula this year, with Red Bull appearing to have abandoned plans for him to feature in the Japanese series.

Vips joined DAMS in F2 as a replacement for the injured Sean Gelael from the Spa round onwards, and has scored 16 points in eight races, including a podium at the Mugello sprint race.

With Gelael set to return from his back injury for the round in Bahrain later this month, it is unclear if Vips will have any more racing duties through 2020.

He has not raced in the Formula Regional European Championship since the Mugello round last month, having scored three podiums in nine races this year.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/red-bull-rebuild-albon-confidence-before-turkey/4903540/
DATE: 2020

Albon is battling to prove to Red Bull that he deserves a seat in F1 next year, with the outfit weighing up whether to stick with the youngster or  like Nico Hulkenberg or Sergio Perez.

But any hope Albon had of doing his cause good at the Emilia Romagna Grand Prix was dashed after he got stuck in the pack during the race, and then suffered a spin on the safety car restart following Max Verstappen’s retirement.

With only four races remaining this year, and Red Bull needing to make a call soon, Albon is under increasing pressure to lift his game.

Reflecting on the Thai driver’s performance at Imola, Red Bull team principal Christian Horner told Sky F1: “It's a difficult one for Alex, because he was in that race with Charles [Leclerc] and Daniel [Ricciardo] all afternoon.

“Then at the restart, fighting Perez who was on new tyres, he just lost it at the second chicane. So it was hugely frustrating for him to come away with zero points, and for the team as well.

“We'll obviously try and work with him between now and Turkey, and build him up again and go again there.”

Red Bull motorsport advisor Helmut Marko has indicated that the team could wait until after the final race of the season in Abu Dhabi to make its definitive call on drivers.

Albon said that perhaps the biggest mistake from the race on Sunday was in not pitting for soft tyres at the track – as that left him exposed to cars on quicker rubber behind him.

“It's one of those races where we spent the whole race behind the other cars,” he told television reporters. “There wasn't much to do there.

“Possibly in hindsight we should have stopped when the others did at the end of the race, and of course we were the first cold-tyred car for them to come across so it was always going to be difficult to hold them off.

“I think we had some contact as well which helped me come around and that was it really. It was one of those times where if we stopped we could have been looking for a podium. But that's just the way it is.”

Albon’s weekend was not a complete disaster, after he qualified 0.396 seconds behind teammate Max Verstappen and would have been in the hunt for points were it not for his team.

Asked if he could push a bit more in the team, Albon said: “I'm already doing that to be honest. It's not like I'm not doing it already, but of course I'm hanging in there, I'm doing everything I can. It was in retrospect not a bad weekend for me, but we'll focus on Turkey.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/verstappen-imola-tyre-failure-horner/4902708/
DATE: 2020

Verstappen was comfortably running in second place before a blowout on his right-rear tyre at the Variante Villeneuve caused him to spin out of the race with 12 laps to go.

It marked a frustrating end of Verstappen’s race after the Dutchman had managed to pass Valtteri Bottas eight laps earlier following a close battle with the Mercedes driver.

Red Bull F1 boss Christian Horner explained after the race that the team suspected Verstappen had hit some debris due to the instant nature of the failure.

“We think that he's hit some kind of debris or something, because he was on the radio to his race engineer at the time and boom, the tyre suddenly went,” Horner said after the race.

“So it suggested something that has just caused a totally instantaneous puncture, and that was the result of it.

“Very, very frustrating, particularly after he managed to pass Valtteri, and it felt like today we had pretty decent pace. Annoying not to get that P2 today.”

Verstappen had jumped from third on the grid to run second through the opening stint after passing Lewis Hamilton on the opening lap, and was the first of the front-runners to pit in a bid to put pressure on race leader Bottas.

Mercedes responded by stopping Bottas one lap later, but opted to keep Hamilton out longer, allowing the British driver to get the jump on both Bottas and Verstappen once he had pitted.

Horner said it was impossible for Red Bull to cover off both strategies given it only had one car in the fight at the front.

“You're in a strategy sandwich at that point,” Horner said. “If you go for the undercut, they can go longer with the tail car, and you can't cover both options. You have got to pick the one that you want to try and beat.

“We actually picked to try and beat Lewis, because we felt that Valtteri on new tyres would also have the pace after after a stop, but his pace wasn't great.

“He was making a lot of mistakes, and that allowed Lewis to close into within a pitstop window, then they didn't take it. Then they got to traffic, and then the VSC came out and he had a free stop.”

Bottas had been struggling with damage on the floor of his Mercedes car since the second lap of the race, picking up debris from Sebastian Vettel’s Ferrari.

It left Bottas struggling to match Hamilton’s pace and unable to pull a gap to Verstappen, before eventually losing second place after making a mistake at Rivazza and running wide.

Horner said that Bottas brake tested Verstappen in an attempt to keep the position, but the Red Bull driver opted to use DRS and wait until the Variante Tamburello to complete the overtake.

“We were aware of the damage that Valtteri was was managing, and that obviously gave Lewis a pace advantage as well,” Horner said.

“That made it even more important for Max to put him under pressure, get a mistake, which he got.

“I was just talking to him, and he said Valtteri basically gave him a little brake test, which is fair play, in that corner where he made the mistake and nearly went up the back of him.

“But he was patient enough to come onto the straight, and then use the DRS and pass him into into turn two. At that point, things were looking good.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/red-bull-wouldnt-swap-constructors-cash-for-drivers-crown/6977710/
DATE: 2021

Verstappen secured his maiden F1 drivers' title at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, when he benefited from a late safety car restart to overtake  on the final lap.

But despite his success, Red Bull lost out to rival  in the fight for the constructors' championship.

Teams are often conflicted about which championship means the most to them.

Fans are always more interested in the drivers' battle, while teams earn their commercial rights income based on the outcome of the constructors' title.

That factor means that staff bonuses are often more dictated by where they finished in the team rankings.

But while Red Bull will get less money than Mercedes this year because it finished second in the constructors' championship, Horner is clear that his team would not change a thing.

"The constructors' is where the money is," he said. "That is where the revenues that come into the sport are distributed, based on your performance in the championship.

"I think every employee within our team, and probably in most of the teams, is rewarded on where they are in the constructors' championship, as opposed to the drivers'.

"But the drivers' obviously has the popularity and it has the prestige. I don't think there's a single employee within our business that would have traded the first place in the constructors' for this drivers' championship."

Christian Horner, Team Principal, Red Bull Racing, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Getty Images / Red Bull Content Pool

Horner said the scenes at Red Bull's factory in the week after Abu Dhabi showed just how much the drivers' title success meant to his all his staff.

"When you see the reaction that Max had, when he visited the factory, everyone is so proud of what he's achieved.

"Of course the constructors' has huge importance to it because of that revenue distribution, and we're talking millions and millions of dollars in difference between a first and a second place, for example.

"But the prestige of the drivers' world championship, that's the big one. That's the one that you really want. And you know, that's why it meant so much achieving that."

Horner believes that ending Mercedes' title dominance for the first time in F1's turbo hybrid era also meant that Red Bull's success this year felt like its first ever crown.

"This one feels equally as special as that very first title," he said. "I think the intensity and the competitiveness of this one has been insane.

"I think the fact that it's been against the quality of opposition that we've had in both Lewis and the Mercedes team, it has stretched us to probably beyond what we even thought we were capable of.

"And I think what makes it even more rewarding is that during the hybrid era, Mercedes have been all dominant, they've annihilated the opposition. And finally, we've managed to produce a competitive car and Max has grabbed it with both hands.

"To manage to come out on top with the biggest title on offering in motorsport is a tremendously proud moment for us. And obviously, we're tremendously proud of what Max has achieved."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mercedes-red-bull-relations-need-mending-says-f1-boss/6955205/
DATE: 2021

With the championship battle between F1’s top two teams having gone to the wire in the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, tensions between Red Bull boss Christian Horner and  chief Toto Wolff erupted as the season neared its end.

The level of animosity between the pair spilled over at times to them getting involved in clashes in FIA press conferences or in the media.

While the pair did shake hands during a final meeting in Abu Dhabi, the controversy over the safety car restart in the finale, and the protests lodged by Mercedes after the race, highlighted that things were still not completely settled between the two squads.

Speaking as he collected a prestigious Lorenzo Bandini Award in Italy on Tuesday night, Domenicali said one thing that F1 needed to address for next year was not letting the fallout of this season fester.

Instead, he felt it important that Mercedes and Red Bull mended their relationship for the good of the sport.

Asked if he had any worries for F1 in 2022, Domenicali said: “Those who live with certainties mean that they sleep well!

“But we have many doubts and we have to face them. We have issues that will eventually have to be managed.

“We will have to evaluate day-by-day the relationship that must be recovered between Red Bull and Mercedes, to avoid the personal clashes that we have seen that serve no benefit.”

Red Bull team boss Christian Horner and Formula 1 CEO Stefano Domenicali

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Mercedes remains upset about the FIA’s handling of the safety car restart in Abu Dhabi, which it believed was in breach of the rules.

While it has dropped plans for an appeal over the matter, it has vowed to hold the governing body to account in a commission that has been set up to look at the events.

F1 owners Liberty Media have remained silent so far on the fallout of that controversy, as it prefers to leave matters like that for new FIA president Mohammed ben Sulayem to deal with.

Speaking about the situation, Domenicali said: “We have already spoken with the president. We talked about the priorities he will have to face, and there are many.

“But, at this stage, it is right to remain silent so as not to create further controversy in an area that was very overheated. But I would like to say that we come from an extraordinary season, followed by more than two billion people.

“The last Abu Dhabi GP was the most followed sporting event in 2021. These are stratospheric numbers that we must be proud of.”

Domenicali reckoned, however, that Sulayem’s arrival at the FIA would lead to a change of dynamic for the governing body.

“With the change of presidency within the FIA ​​there may also be a change in the balance within the FIA, which for us has an absolutely fundamental role.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/abu-dhabi-controversy-wont-taint-verstappen-title/6892667/
DATE: 2021

The manner in which F1 race director Michael Masi handled the late race safety car at the Yas Marina circuit last weekend has triggered a backlash for grand prix racing, and tarnished the image of both the sport and the FIA.

While motor racing's governing body is clear that lessons can be learned from what happened, with a commission being set up to probe the events, Red Bull reckons that the fallout has done nothing to overshadow the achievement of Verstappen.

Instead, Red Bull team boss Christian Horner reckons that the controversy will quickly blow away – and all that anyone will focus on in the future is how Verstappen was so good over the campaign.

“People in this business have very short memories,” said Horner. “We even forgot what's happened earlier this year as it's been such a long racing season.

“I think that Max is absolutely the deserving world champion, when you look at the championship as a whole.

“Of course, you know, the events on Sunday have drawn an awful lot of comment. But that happens. It happens in sport.

“I think that we've had a lot of bad luck this year. We got fortunate with a safety car, but we made the right strategic calls. We won the race with great strategy, great teamwork, and great execution by Max.

“And time will move on. Max is a very, very deserving world champion, and we're incredibly proud of that. And the history books will always show that he's the 2021 world champion.”

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, Christian Horner, Team Principal, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Getty Images / Red Bull Content Pool

Verstappen himself says that lessons from F1’s history books, including controversies such as the way Ayrton Senna won the 1990 championship by driving Alain Prost off the road at Suzuka, show that time changes people’s perceptions.

“Even the championships which have been won, like 30 years ago, they have also been sometimes a bit controversial,” said the Dutchman.

“But nowadays, I guess, people, when they look back at footage like that, they actually enjoy it. So it's just part of the sport.”

Verstappen felt it right, however, that the FIA was willing to look into the events of Abu Dhabi with an investigation to see what lessons can be learned for the future.

For while there were times when he did not agree with stewards’ decisions, he equally understands how tough their job can be.

“I was sometimes not agreeing to what happened in the races, but I think that's quite normal right?” he said.

“You even have that in your relationship where sometimes you don't agree with things.

“Throughout the whole year maybe it didn't look like it, but I was in a very good relationship with the stewards. And when we were in there, sometimes it's a tough call.

“I mean, I also, in 2019, I kind of got invited to spend two days with the FIA [at the stewards seminar] and spent a bit of time with the stewards as well.

“Sometimes also for them, it's very hard to make decisions, and they have to follow the rules. So, yeah, I think it's good at least that you can talk about it and, as a driver, when I look at myself, I also look at every single year, what can I do better?

“I think everyone should be like that every single year: to look into the year after and, and say, what can we do better?”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/red-bull-eyes-early-verstappen-f1-contract-extension/6886227/
DATE: 2021

The Dutchman picked up his maiden F1 championship trophy at the FIA's prize-giving gala in Paris on Thursday night, which came just days after his last-lap victory in the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.

Verstappen's current contract runs until the end of 2023, and he has said several times since his success at the weekend that he wants to stay at his current squad for the next ten to 15 years.

While there is no rush to think about the future, Red Bull's motorsport advisor Helmut Marko has revealed that he plans to begin talks imminently about getting a lengthy new deal in place.

Verstappen is soon due to visit Red Bull's headquarters in Salzburg, and then also see Marko himself at his office in Graz, where discussions could begin to sort matters out.

In an interview with , Marko has revealed that contract negotiations will be on the agenda with Verstappen's manager Raymond Vermeulen when they meet.

"We'll see," said Marko in the YouTube video. "We will discuss and perhaps conclude an extension."

Verstappen himself has made no secret of the fact that he feels that Red Bull has become a 'family' to him, as he sees every reason to remain there.

Formula One World Champion Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing and Jean Todt, FIA President

"It does feel like that, because I think you heard on my radio as well, on the in lap, asking if I could stay for another 10/15 years," he said at the FIA gala.

"So I am very happy where I am. And also just I can be myself, and that I think is also really important. And it's not only about just purely F1: we can have fun, we can have a good laugh.

"I think that's also important. Because it's not only about performance, also you need to enjoy what you're doing."

While an early move to lengthen Verstappen's contract would guarantee that rival  could not poach him, Marko does not think there is a chance of the youngster looking elsewhere on the F1 grid.

And he especially thinks that the events of this year, including the collision between Verstappen and  at the British Grand Prix, have changed things for his driver.

"There is no such danger," said Marko about the prospects of a Mercedes bid. "Too much was destroyed in Silverstone."

Marko says Verstappen is by far the best driver that Red Bull has ever had, and he sees parallels to the late Ayrton Senna.

"[He is] the fastest, most consistent and most aggressive driver we've ever had", he said.

"These two drivers are comparable in terms of their mentality, their personality and their aggressiveness. We are lucky to have someone like that."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/verstappen-red-bull-did-nothing-wrong-abu-dhabi/6883980/
DATE: 2021

The Dutchman clinched his maiden F1 drivers’ crown at the Yas Marina circuit on Sunday, after a final lap safety car restart allowed him to overtake rival  for the win.

But the way in which the FIA handled the restart, which appeared to be in contravention of its own regulations, prompted a post-race protest from  that was not settled until many hours after the finish.

, by insisting F1 race director Michael Masi has complete authority over the use of the safety car which therefore supersedes specific rules, the German car manufacturer remains unhappy.

While the controversy over what happened in Abu Dhabi shows no sign of quietening down, and  whether or not to go ahead with an appeal, Verstappen says he is not too downbeat about the situation.

Asked if the protest and appeal controversy had taken the shine of his title success, Verstappen said: “No, I mean, it's quite typical looking at the season that it happens.

“It is what it is. I mean, we were still happy and enjoying it. And we, as a team, didn't do anything wrong.

“We raced when there was a green light and green flag, so we went for it and we did it on track.”

The Safety Car and Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes W12

Photo by: Simon Galloway /

While the Abu Dhabi controversy will remain a talking point for a long while, Verstappen says that the whole season has been a rollercoaster for both him and the team.

And while he concedes that there were days like Sunday where fortune went his way, equally there were occasions when he felt he deserved better.

“It's been of course, a tough season,” he said. “We had definitely some dominant races, but also in general, I think Mercedes was a stronger team.

“But it's been a really enjoyable battle, having two teams fighting and pushing flat out to the end.

“Of course at times you think, this might not be it, we might not hang on until the end. But there are always surprises.

“Some races I think we have won which we shouldn't. But then also I had quite a bit of bad luck, of course, with the tyre getting taken out [in Baku] and these kind of things.

“So we lost also saw a lot of points by that. But all in all, it's been intense but a crazy season.”

Verstappen also thinks that Red Bull and himself had to push themselves to levels even they thought were not possible in trying to beat Mercedes.

“We were pushing each other, but we were pushing the whole team behind us as well to another level, which they maybe didn’t think was possible,” he said.

“For everyone it was very intense. To be fighting every single race, everyone had to be so perfect with strategy, preparations before a weekend, no mechanical failures, and all these kind of things. There was a lot of pressure and stress for everyone involved.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/red-bull-f1-needs-rules-rethink-after-abu-dhabi-controversy/6883951/
DATE: 2021

While the Milton Keynes-based team saw  clinch his maiden drivers’ title on Sunday, it has expressed some unease about the way events have been handled through the 2021 campaign.

The FIA has found itself in the firing line over the past 48 hours for the way that F1 race director Michael Masi handled the final safety car restart.

In particular, a decision to only allow a selected few backmarkers to unlap themselves on the penultimate lap, allied to a call that goes against one of the rules in going for an immediate restart, has triggered a wave of criticisms.

The  team protested the FIA’s actions on Sunday night. And although the , the German car manufacturer is .

The controversy over the restart has left a cloud over Verstappen’s success, and Red Bull has also suggested that the sport needs to act on all that has happened this season – with changes to both the rules books and the manner in which stewards make decisions.

"The whole system needs to be rethought,” said Marko, after a season when Red Bull has been unhappy at times with FIA decisions.

“There needs to be consistency. Decisions cannot be interpreted once this way and once that way. The rules must be simplified. The premise must be: let's race!”

Marko believes that with the FIA appointing a president after Friday’s election, the opportunity is there for Jean Todt’s successor to move swiftly to ensure F1 does better in the future.

Asked if there needed to be a change of personnel, Marko said: “That in itself is not our task, but after so many mistakes and questionable decisions were made, there is certainly a great need for action.

“A new president is coming, so he will want to start here first. And the stewards should definitely be questioned.”

Asked if he was especially unhappy in how Masi handled the Abu Dhabi race, Marko said “The rules have to be such that a quick decision can be made, and those responsible have to make them in a matter of seconds. And these decisions cannot vary in such a way.”

Christian Horner, Team Principal, Red Bull Racing, Helmut Marko, Consultant, Red Bull Racing, celebrate with their team in Parc Ferme

Photo by: Steven Tee /

Red Bull team boss Christian Horner reckoned that what happened in Abu Dhabi was the latest in a series of ‘marginal calls’ that Masi had made this season.

Asked by Motorsport.com if he felt the FIA could learn from what happened, Horner said: “I think there’s always lessons that you can learn as a team, and in life generally.

“We felt that the decisions at the beginning of the race [when Hamilton cut the chicane] went against us. We obviously felt that the decision at the end of the race [with the safety car] was right. It’s been a season like that.

“There’s been marginal calls. Some we’ve benefited from, the majority of which we’ve lost out from.”

While there are questions about the FIA’s actions on Sunday night, Marko also expressed his unhappiness at the way that Mercedes instantly protested the result.

“It was unworthy of a world championship final that the decision was delayed in this way [by a stewards’ hearing],” he said. “However, to make such appeals and protests speaks to the mindset of, I would say, an unworthy [sore] loser.”

Mercedes has until Thursday evening to decide whether or not to pursue its appeal against the stewards’ decision.

If it goes through with the action, and its complaints are accepted, then that could risk the Abu Dhabi result – and with it the world championship – being changed.

Asked if he was worried about such an outcome, Marko said “It doesn't matter to us. We are the moral winner, whether it comes one way or the other.

“But we will reconsider our involvement in Formula 1 if it doesn't have corresponding consequences for the future championships.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/horner-mercedes-f1-protest-in-abu-dhabi-felt-desperate/6879010/
DATE: 2021

clinched the F1 world championship title at the Yas Marina circuit after race director Michael Masi elected to restart the race with one lap to go following a brief safety car period triggered by a crash from ’ .

The Red Bull driver had been switched on to soft tyres for the final shootout lap, while Hamilton was powerless to resist him as he was on well-used hard tyres.

protested the FIA’s call to restart the race with one lap to go, claiming that the regulations stipulated it could not begin again until after the following lap once backmarkers had been told to unlap themselves.

Following a lengthy stewards’ hearing, the FIA rejected Mercedes’ complaints – stating that Masi had the universal right to decide when the safety car came in, and claiming the regulations that stipulated the ‘following lap’ are overruled by other clauses.

Speaking in the wake of the FIA stewards’ decision, Horner welcomed the call – and made clear that his team had had no desire for the championship to end in the stewards’ room.

Asked if he understood why Mercedes lodged its complaints, Horner said: “It obviously felt a little bit desperate. But we didn't want it to finish in front of the stewards.

“They've been great competitors this year. And Lewis has been a phenomenal driver. It's had its moments, it has been tense. It's been tough. But we're just delighted with the outcome. And very proud of Max tonight. He has been phenomenal all year.”

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, celebrate with team members

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Horner said he had no doubts that Masi made the right call in trying to get the race running again, rather than it finishing behind the safety car.

“We never wanted to end up in front of the stewards,” he said. “There was obviously a lot of debate before the race but, as it turned out, it was obviously very different after the race.

“But we don't go racing with barristers, and so on. It was a shame that it ended up there, but the stewards made the right call.”

Horner said that Masi had again shown a desire to follow the ‘let them race’ mantra in his decision to bring the safety car in before the final lap.

“We've talked about let them race,” added Horner. “You know, Niki Lauda was the guy that pushed hard for it. And we've always talked about not finishing races under safety cars.

“The race director, in difficult circumstances, made absolutely the right call today. And, you know, strategically we got it right.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/red-bull-mercedes-never-comfortable-about-being-beaten-by-drinks-company/6877028/
DATE: 2021

The two outfits are heading into F1's season finale in Abu Dhabi battling for both the drivers' and constructors' championships at the end of a campaign where animosity has erupted at times.

While some of the tensions appear to have been quelled, with Horner and  chief Toto Wolff shaking hands in a press conference on Friday, it is clear that the two teams do not see eye-to-eye on everything.

Horner thinks part of Mercedes' feelings towards his squad comes from it being a major global car maker, whereas Red Bull operates in a completely different industry.

Furthermore, comments that  made back in 2011, as he dismissed Red Bull as just a 'drinks company', have not been forgotten.

"If you think of the size of Mercedes globally, they must be one of the biggest automotive companies in the world," said Horner.

"The power that they wield with media around the world, I think we pale into insignificance in comparison.

"As Lewis Hamilton indeed called us, we're just an energy drinks company going racing.

"I think that Mercedes, and the Mercedes Formula 1 team, they've become a machine the last seven or eight years during their period of dominance, and they obviously have the weight and power of the parent company behind them.

"I can't believe it's particularly comfortable being beaten by an energy drinks manufacturer as a major OEM. You're never sat comfortably. We know that, it's been made quite clear to us.

"But we're a team of racers, we're going racing, we've got a phenomenal driver who has driven his heart out this year."

Christian Horner, Team Principal, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Erik Junius

But Horner's remarks about Mercedes have been dismissed by Wolff, who insists that his team has nothing but respect for Red Bull as a competitor.

Asked about being beaten by an energy drinks manufacturer, Wolff said: "It's not something that I said, and I would not say it because I have all the respect for Red Bull as a drinks company, and all the respect for the racing team.

"That's why I reached out to him [Horner] because I felt we should be going in to the race without any animosity. They were the quicker car [in qualifying], absolutely, and we will take that on the chin for all of us. One zero for them and let's see what it is in the race."

Wolff also thought that Horner was not correct in his suggestions that the 'Mad Max' narrative was something that had been pushed solely by Mercedes.

In reference to a famous Austrian joke, Wolff suggested that there are times when people need to see things from a wider perspective.

"I don't know why he's making that up," said Wolff. "I think you know in Austria there is a joke about ghost drivers [who drive in the wrong direction down the motorway].

"So there is the radio and it gives a warning to say: 'attention, attention on Highway two, there is a Ghost Driver'. And the guy who drives in the opposite direction says: "One? There's hundreds of them!

"So I think it's the media machine or it's everybody who has commented on the driving, and it is pretty much the same opinion."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/verstappen-red-bull-didnt-plan-to-start-abu-dhabi-gp-on-soft-tyres/6874859/
DATE: 2021

Before he dominated Q3 to take pole at the Yas Marina track ahead of , Verstappen had initially tried to get through Q2 on the mediums, the same compound his rival ran at that stage to take for the start of Sunday's race.

But after posting a time that would have got him through to Q3 on the mediums, Verstappen locked up at Turn 1 as his run on the yellow-walled rubber continued and he quickly reported that the set had been flat-spotted on the left-front.

He therefore pitted and went back out on the softs, which he used to top Q2 and then go on to claim a 10th pole of the 2021 season.

When asked if it was always the plan to start on the softer rubber, which was tracked degrading much more in the long runs that closed FP2 compared to the mediums, which offer greater strategic flexibility as well as longer life, Verstappen replied: "Well, naturally it wasn't.

"Because I wanted to try and start on the mediums, but I flat-spotted that one.

"But I felt good yesterday on the long-run also on the softs. So, it's not really a difficult decision to make to then just say OK, 'let's just focus on the soft'."

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB16B

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

Hamilton, who was speaking alongside Verstappen in the post-qualifying press conference, said the differing tyre strategies between the pair was "interesting" and said he was "always kind of sceptical of everything".

He added: "So it will be interesting to go back and look at the information and onboard laps. It's very rare that people lock up in Turn 1.

"But if he truly did lock up in Turn 1, then maybe whether or not we're in the better position in terms of that tyre [will become clear].

"Or maybe they know something we don't and that soft tyre was their plan all the time.

"We struggled a little bit more on the soft tyre for the long runs. I think we've got the right tyre, but I guess we'll see tomorrow."

Verstappen also explained that ahead of qualifying he had been feeling "a bit on and off in terms of [car] balance".

The Red Bull cars ran in their low downforce configuration with a skinnier rear wing.

"For qualifying, we made the right decisions," Verstappen added.

"As soon as I went into qualifying, I had a bit of a better feeling, but nevertheless [in] Q1 still not perfect, still needed to fine-tune a few things.

"But from Q2 onwards it was a bit better, but of course in Q2 I had my flat spot on the medium set so I had to go out on the softs again.

"But then in Q3 basically both laps [the car felt good]– the last lap until [Turns] 12-13 I was more or less on the same lap time. The car felt pretty decent in these final two laps."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/red-bull-fia-should-not-change-racing-rules-stance-for-f1-finale/6873891/
DATE: 2021

With  and  neck-and-neck on points ahead of this weekend's Yas Marina event, there has been intense speculation about the risks of the championship being decided in a controversial incident.

One week on from an ill-tempered Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, Masi reminded teams ahead of the weekend that the FIA's own International Sporting Code does allow the governing body to deduct championship points in the event of extreme unsportsmanlike conduct.

Amid some recent uncertainty from drivers about Masi's stance on racing rules – especially a perceived lack of consistency in some recent decisions regarding defensive moves – some have suggested that the FIA should be clear about what it deems fair ahead of the race.

However, Red Bull team boss Christian Horner thinks that any change in approach from the FIA now would be wrong.

Instead, he thinks that if the FIA wanted to impose some strict guidelines it should have done so after the crash between Hamilton and Verstappen at the British Grand Prix.

Asked if there would be a benefit if Masi sat down with Verstappen and Hamilton ahead of the Abu Dhabi GP, Horner said: "I don't think it's necessary.

"There's no difference between this race and the previous 21 events. Maybe you should have sat down after Silverstone.

"I think that the expectation is that all the events, the same rules apply for all of them. You can't suddenly just change the rules for one event versus another.

"Our drivers are very aware of what the rules are. I'm sure the FIA will apply them in an even and equal manner to what they've done in previous races."

Toto Wolff, Team Principal and CEO, Mercedes AMG

Photo by: Simon Galloway /

team boss Toto Wolff said, however, he welcomed Masi's reminder about the potential within the ISC to deduct championship points, and he felt it would be a good deterrent.

"I think that with all controversies that we had in the last few races and again, this is probably a matter of perception, different perceptions from different camps, it is a very good that Michael and the FIA have come out with a reminder of what the ISC stands for," he said.

"I think coming out is maybe a good deterrent for everyone, just to keep to the racing clean, what is on and what is not on, and simply not only the real race result will matter for the championship but also the driving standards."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/horner-mad-max-f1-narrative-driven-by-mercedes-media-machine/6873552/
DATE: 2021

Verstappen will go head-to-head with  driver  for the F1 title this weekend in Abu Dhabi, where they will start the race tied on points.

Verstappen claimed ahead of the race weekend that he was treated differently by the stewards compared to other drivers after receiving two penalties during the Saudi Arabian Grand Prix last Sunday.

Hamilton called Verstappen “f**king crazy” during their fight for the lead in Jeddah after being forced off-track at Turn 1.

Ahead of the Abu Dhabi finale, race director Michael Masi reminded drivers in his pre-event notes that points deductions are possible in the event of unsporting on-track conduct.

Speaking on Friday in Abu Dhabi, Horner explained how he felt Hamilton and Mercedes were using all available tools to put pressure on Verstappen, including pushing the narrative about his driving style.

“Lewis is a seven-time world champion, he’s the most successful driver of all-time,” Horner said.

“He has a standing obviously within the sport. What he says carries a lot of weight. I think he has used every tool available to him to put Max under pressure this year.

“He’s a competitive animal - you don’t become a seven-time world champion by not being a competitor like he is.

“So yes, I believe, and backed up by the Mercedes media machine, a huge amount of pressure has been placed on Max.”

Christian Horner, Team Principal, Red Bull Racing

Horner said it was important to remember that Verstappen was “just a young lad” at 24 years old, driving with “bravery, passion, skill and determination”.

“He’s up against not only Lewis, but a huge machine in Mercedes-Benz,” Horner said.

“I think all credit to him, the way he’s handled that pressure this year. And hasn’t been drawn into it, hasn’t been sucked into it.

“He’s gone about his business, and hasn’t changed from Bahrain to Saudi his approach or how he goes racing.”

Horner added that Red Bull was “a team of racers” that was focused on the on-track battles.

“We’re going racing, we’ve got a phenomenal driver who has driven his heart out this year,” Horner said.

“It’s been intense on-track and off-track. And I do think the spotlight, even the narrative of this ‘mad Max’ scenario or calling him crazy, there’s been a very clear narrative.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/how-tensions-cooled-between-wolff-and-horner-ahead-of-f1s-squid-game-finale/6871296/
DATE: 2021

While their respective teams and drivers have gone wheel-to-wheel, Wolff and Horner have fired shots at each other throughout the season. Amid flexi-wing sagas, rights to review, accident reconstructions and threats to protest, it has fuelled what Horner called in the tense Qatar press conference "by far the most intense political title fight we've been involved in".

But two days out from the championship decider, and with the constructors' championship trophy sat between them, Horner and Wolff's war of words seemed to have cooled. Declarations that "diplomacy has ended" (Wolff in Brazil) and there was "no relationship" between the teams (Horner in Qatar) made way for not one, but two handshakes.

"Good luck," said Wolff, reaching towards Horner with his right hand after both were asked what they would say to one another. "May the best man and the best team win." They would later shake hands a second time off-camera when leaving the press conference.

Both team principals have recently expressed their surprise that they arrive in Abu Dhabi even with a chance at the championship at all. "Who'd have thought at the beginning of the season we'd be here with an outside shot of going for this trophy?" Horner said, the outside shot reference meaning the constructors' standings where  needs 17 points to secure the title.

"Nobody has come close to challenging this team in the last eight years. Here we are at the final race, in with a shot, a long shot in the constructors', and equal opportunity on the drivers. So I think there's a real feeling of excitement."

Horner added: "It almost feels like a bit like Squid Game, that we've finished up here on equal points. I think it's going to make compelling viewing on Sunday."

Squid Game, for those not familiar, has been the Netflix phenomenon of 2021. This is your warning for gentle spoilers to come.

The premise of the Korean series is that hundreds of people take part in a brutal series of children's games (such as 'Red Light, Green Light') where losers are eliminated and killed, but the last man or woman standing has a chance to win a life-changing amount of money.

The final game of the series is 'Squid Game', where childhood friends Gi-hun and Sang-woo fight against each other in a brutal fight to the death. But just as one appears to be about to win, Gi-hun calls for a truce that would end the game and allow both to leave with their lives.

To go with Horner's Squid Game theme, similar to how that moment acts as a cooling at the most intense moment of the series, today's press conference felt like a point where so much of the pent-up tension that made their time with the media so enthralling (and, at times, gruelling) in Qatar, had given way for a mutual respect and acceptance between Wolff and Horner: no, we don't need to pretend to be friends. Because if we did, our hearts wouldn't be in it enough.

Mercedes and Red Bull have clashed on and off the track throughout a highly charged 2021 season

Photo by: Steve Etherington /

It reasons their fierce defences of their teams, their drivers, and the hundreds of men and women working towards the same goal of winning the championship. "I will defend my team, I will defend my drivers, to the hilt - because that's what you do, that's who you represent, that's who you look to protect," said Horner.

"It would be for me, a very artificial to sit here or throughout the season and be all smiles with your biggest competitor. For me, I can't do that, because that wouldn't be being true. It wouldn't be being honest.

"Of course, emotions boil over. We're in a competitive sport. And I think that's Formula 1. It shows the intensity of the competition, the intensity between the teams. It's given you guys something to write about.

"I think it's just been honest more than anything, and for me it would be totally fake to sit here and say how much we love each other and are going to go on holiday after this weekend - because I'm not going on holiday with you after this race!"

Wolff agreed: "There's mutual respect for the job that the other team has done. They wouldn't be where they are competing for this championships all along. But it is just too intense.

"I stand for the team and in the interests of the team, and that can be fierce at times, because it's not only the drivers battling on track. It's a fight for the advantage in the regulations, and obviously we have also certain bias that comes from different perspectives and different perceptions."

Wolff also acknowledged when that passion of the fight can lead to an emotional reaction, perhaps best evidenced by his reaction to the camera in Brazil when Hamilton finally overtook Verstappen.

"I can get quite emotional in the moment," Wolff said. "And Christian has his own way of dealing with it, as he said, very different personalities. But it is just the fight for this trophy, one of the most important prizes in sport. It's a world championship.

"That's why you cannot expect a lot of schmoozing between drivers, team principals and all the team."

Toto Wolff and Christian faced off at Friday's FIA press conference

And it is true. In such a high-intensity sport filled with so many characters and personalities, for everyone to get on would be not only surprising, but also disappointing. Fans have thrived off the dynamics between the team principals in recent years, particularly through another Netflix series, Drive to Survive.

But there does need to be a level of respect. Amid toxicity online and a polarisation between fanbases nearing the title battle's endgame - something alluded to by Carlos Sainz Jr on Thursday - it is good to have seen Wolff and Horner appear to cool things.

Horner talked up Verstappen's maturity and how he was handling the pressure of his first title fight, feeling the narrative had been written against him - something he later expanded on as being partly down to Hamilton and the "Mercedes media machine". He also stressed the need for consistency from the stewards following Michael Masi's event notes warning of points deductions for unsportsmanlike conduct.

"Nobody wants to see this championship end up in front of the stewards or in a gravel trap," Horner added. "You want to see these two titan of drivers that have gone wheel-to-wheel so often this year go at it again this weekend."

As fractured as the title fight and relations between F1's top two teams have been at times, the message going into the rest of the weekend seems clear: let's settle this on track.

It would be a fitting ending to what has been a championship battle for the ages; a thriller with twists and turns to keep us as captivated as any episode of Squid Game.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/red-bull-f1-car-bathurst-mount-panorama/10413355/
DATE: 2022

car will take part in the Intercontinental GT Challenge season opener with an off- and on-track activation.

That will include an RB7, used during the 2011 F1 world championship season, running demonstration laps of the iconic Bathurst circuit.

The driver of the car for the demo will be officially unveiled in the new year, however it could easily fall under the remit of new third driver , whose role includes commercial activities.

The Red Bull run will also see the cars and drivers accessible to the public as part of a display in the Bathurst 12 Hour paddock.

“Oracle Red Bull Racing are the current Formula 1 world champions – just to have them at the event is a privilege, but to know that the Red Bull Racing Formula 1 car will be lapping Mount Panorama will be something else," said Bathurst 12 Hour event director Shane Rudzis.

“This will be a spectacle like nothing we’ve seen at the 12 Hour before and takes the event to an entirely new level.

“This will be the best opportunity in 2023 for Australian F1 fans to get up close and personal with F1 machinery and an even rarer opportunity to see a Formula 1 car lap Mount Panorama.”

Red Bull has staged promotional events in Australia before, Ricciardo twice driving Red Bull F1 cars in his home city of Perth.

Daniel Ricciardo, Red Bull-Renault RB7

Photo by: Travis Hayto

The second was the Perth Speed Fest in 2015 which including driving an RB7 around the CBD streets.

also lapped Sydney Motorsport Park in an RB7 during the Top Gear Festival in 2013.

As for F1 cars at Mount Panorama,  holds the unofficial lap record at the circuit – a 1m48.8s set in a  MP4-23 in 2011.

That was as part of a Vodafone event, with Supercars legend Craig Lowndes also running laps in the McLaren and falling just a second short of Button's best.

The 2023 Bathurst 12 Hour will take place on February 3-5.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/verstappen-felt-he-couldnt-afford-any-mistakes-after-early-f1-2022-dnfs/10410837/
DATE: 2022

Verstappen swept to his second F1 world title in 2022, setting a new record with 15 wins in a single season and a new high points tally of 454, leaving him 146 clear of  rival  in second place.

Although Verstappen’s dominance meant he clinched the title with four races to spare, the Dutchman had  as early as the fourth race at Imola.

This came after he was forced to retire in both Bahrain and Australia due to a fuel pump problem, causing him to fall 46 points - almost two race wins - back from Leclerc in the standings.

Asked by Motorsport.com if he could identify one area where he really stepped up this year, Verstappen noted the importance of scoring at every race, and recalled feeling that he could not put a foot wrong after the early DNFs.

“You know when you have to fight for a title, you need to score points basically every race as much as you can,” Verstappen said ahead of collecting the F1 world championship trophy at the FIA prize giving in Bologna last week.

“That’s why at the beginning of the year, it was very tough to have these DNFs. I knew from that point onwards, I could not afford any mistakes from my side, in case we would have retirements for whatever reason.

“You always try to be as clear as you can be and try to be as perfect as you can every single weekend. That’s what I try to demand from myself every time I jump into the car.”

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB18, 1st position, passes the Red Bull pit wall as he takes victory

Photo by: Carl Bingham /

The fashion of Verstappen’s title win in 2022 cut a stark contrast to his maiden success in 2021, which came at the end of an intense, year-long fight against  that went down to the final lap of the season.

Hamilton and  did not factor in the championship battle this year, with Verstappen’s primary challenge coming from Leclerc and Ferrari through the opening half of the season.

But following the summer break, Red Bull pulled clear in the development stakes, allowing Verstappen to win nine of the final 11 races.

Red Bull team principal Christian Horner felt Verstappen had “made another step forward as a driver” through 2022 following the “heavyweight bout” against Hamilton last year.

“He’s driven with such maturity, with such composure this year, and he’s delivered some massive wins under huge pressure,” said Horner.

“It’s only when you look back at the season, and we’ve started to do that in the last week, when you think back to some of the races like Saudi or Miami or Montreal, there’s been some massive moments there.

“We didn’t have the quickest car at the beginning of the year. He very much kept us in contention and just kept pushing, and drove with phenomenal precision and pace.

“When there was an opportunity there to take, he grabbed it with both hands.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/perez-felt-his-f1-season-got-back-on-track-after-a-few-bad-races/10410458/
DATE: 2022

Perez made a strong start to his second season with Red Bull in 2022, taking pole in Saudi Arabia and victory in Monaco to leave him 15 points off Verstappen after the opening seven races.

But the Mexican's form took a dip ahead of the summer break as he conceded the development of the RB18 car had left him feeling less comfortable with the car.

Perez rallied with his second win of the year in Singapore and further podiums in Japan, Mexico and Abu Dhabi to close out the season, although it was not quite enough to beat  in the fight for third in the standings.

Reflecting on his season in Friday's FIA Champions press conference at the end-of-year prize giving, Perez explained how he bounced back from early reliability struggles and the rough patch mid-year.

"It started very difficultly with the reliability that we had early on in the beginning of the season," Perez said, referring to the fuel pump issues that hit him and Verstappen in Bahrain and Australia.

"But I think later on, we were quite competitive, we were very consistent. Then we had a few bad races that put us a bit behind Max, but we still managed to get some good points, good podiums, a few wins.

"I think we got our season back on track for the final eight or so races. It was an intense battle towards the end with Charles and ."

Sergio Perez, Red Bull Racing RB18

Photo by: Michael Potts /

Perez ended the year three points behind Leclerc in the championship, but it nevertheless marked his most successful season to date with his highest finishing position, most wins and most points in a single campaign.

Perez's form was enough for Red Bull to hand him a new two-year contract shortly before his victory in Monaco, keeping him with the team until the end of the 2024 season.

Perez admitted that he felt "a lot better" with Red Bull through his second year as he continued to adjust to the team, saying that joining when COVID-19 restrictions were still largely in place in 2021 had made it trickier.

"Getting into a new team, it's pretty intense, especially joining the team during the COVID times made it a little bit more difficult getting to know everyone around me," Perez explained.

"It was tricky, but I think certainly it was a massive difference. I can just feel that things are just getting better.

"This morning I had a good breakfast with all my engineers, and we could already feel that we are so much more prepared with every year we have together.

"Certainly things are heading in the right direction."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/horner-very-difficult-call-for-binotto-to-leave-ferrari-f1/10409896/
DATE: 2022

Following ’s failure to win the world championship this year, Binotto offered his resignation after feeling he did not have the full support of the Italian manufacturer’s senior management team.

Ferrari accepted his decision to quit and is currently finalising a replacement, with  team boss Frederic Vasseur favourite to take the job.

Binotto’s departure could disrupt the form of one of Red Bull’s chief rivals, with Horner conceding the good job the Swiss-born Italian had done at Maranello.

Asked by Motorsport.com at the FIA Gala Awards in Italy if he was surprised by the events at Ferrari, Horner said: “I think, in all fairness to Mattia, he did a very good job in producing a very competitive car and engine for Ferrari, certainly this year. Obviously, they had their moments operationally.

“He committed a long period of his career and life to Ferrari, and I'm sure it must be very difficult for him to leave that team after all of that time.

“So, of course, a huge pressure in that team, because it's a national team effectively, as well as an OEM team. And I think that it will now be the sixth team principal that I will sit across the table from, since I've been at Red Bull and, obviously, you know, a lot of pressure on that job.”

Charles Leclerc, Ferrari F1-75, Carlos Sainz, Ferrari F1-75

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Horner attended Friday night’s FIA gala to collect Red Bull’s first constructors’ championship trophy since 2013.

Reflecting on the battle with Ferrari this year, he singled out ’s victory at the Emilia Romagna Grand Prix as a key moment in getting Red Bull’s championship ambitions back on track after a difficult start to the year.

“I think they [Ferrari] had a faster car than us in the early part of the season,” he said.

“But we were able to stay in touch and that was very, very important.

“Our championship was 21 races, because we missed the first one by having a double DNF. But we had to stick with them.

“And, for me, one of the crucial weekends was Imola with the sprint race, and then the victory. To win both those races to achieve the 1-2 finish and to beat Ferrari on their home ground was, I think, psychologically a big thing for us as a team, potentially for them as well.

“I think then, as we developed the car, and we improved the car, and we lost a little bit of weight, then the speed came.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/newey-red-bull-arguably-spent-too-long-developing-2021-f1-car/10409528/
DATE: 2022

Verstappen swept to his second world title in dominant fashion this year, scoring a record 15 wins through the season behind the wheel of the Red Bull RB18 car, while Red Bull also clinched its first constructors’ title since 2013.

The dominance of the RB18 came despite an extended development cycle for the RB16B in 2021, when Verstappen was engaged in a close fight for the championship with  rival .

Many teams opted to end their development early in 2021 to focus on the overhauled regulations for 2022, but Red Bull opted to keep bringing updates to successfully help Verstappen’s title bid.

Red Bull was recognised for its success in Sunday’s  as the RB18 won International Racing Car of the Year, the gong being collected by Newey and the Red Bull technical team.

Newey said the success of the RB18 car had been “very special”, particularly given the late switch to focusing on 2022 that he thinks could perhaps have come sooner.

“We had quite a short development period, particularly because we kept developing last year’s car in the battle for the championship, arguably longer than we should have done,” Newey told Motorsport.com after collecting the award.

“That gave us a lot to do over the winter. What we tried to focus on was getting the fundamentals of the car right as this year’s car, and then hoping that would give us the development potential to kind of refine it.

“That’s fortunately how it panned out.”

Adrian Newey OBE being interviewed on the red carpet

Photo by: Nils Jorgensen /

Red Bull fought neck-and-neck with  through the early part of the season, only for its in-season development to pull it comfortably clear as the quickest team after the summer break.

The team won 10 of the final 11 races, allowing both titles to be wrapped up early as it set a new record for point scored by a team in a single season.

Newey said on stage at Grosvenor House that he thought Ferrari was ahead through pre-season testing, but Red Bull’s focus was on making a car that would work well on all tracks.

“In reality, Ferrari, in pre-season, were probably quicker,” said Newey.

“We had a very good, effective first race upgrade. That made it very close, and then it was really a tight battle early on. Ferrari were quicker in some races, we were quicker in others.

“We learned from that and tried to make a well-rounded car for the second half of the season, to make sure that it worked on all circuits. I think we all collectively did a decent job there.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mercedes-sidepod-design-ferrari-red-bull-2022/10409516/
DATE: 2022

The German car manufacturer went completely its own route for 2022, adopting a ‘zero sidepod’ solution on the W13, which was very different to the downwash Red Bull idea and the inwash  concept.

But while  endured difficulties with its 2022 challenger, the team remained adamant that its  solution.

And, with its key focus being on curing the porpoising problems that blighted the start to its campaign rather than worrying about the sidepods, changes it made to most other aspects of its car eventually helped turn its car in to a winner.

Mercedes trackside engineering director Andrew Shovlin said that the team never felt that it needed to focus too much effort on the sidepod solution as it was not triggering a big performance deficit.

Plus, he pointed out, the team has always known that the best route to success in F1 was to push on with its own ideas than simply copy others.

“Most of the engineering, certainly from the aerodynamic point of view, a lot of it are the bits you can't see under the floor,” said Shovlin. “That is where a lot of that work is.

“The sidepod concept was something that we had to commit to anyway for the year realistically. But if we'd been more focused on just trying to find a quick fix, we may have been copying and rolling it out and seeing what it does.

“The goal for us though was always to try and understand it ourselves and learn and find our own path, because if you want to win, and you want to win races and world championships, you don't get there by copying everyone else's design.

“All our other cars have had pioneering features on them, they had clever ideas. We have tried to be leading with the technology, so we'll carry on doing that.”

Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes W13

Photo by: Steve Etherington /

Despite sticking steadfast to its sidepod solution for 2022, Mercedes could yet make a switch for next year as it ponders a rethink of its car concept.

Red Bull’s sidepod design was not the only thing that grabbed attention this year, because it was the team’s low-drag concept – which helped deliver impressive top speed – that gave it a big advantage over the course of the campaign.

Shovlin said that Mercedes, which suffered from high drag, was aware of the characteristic, but was not obsessed with simply boosting straightline speed potential in 2023.

“When you've got a completely new set of rules, it's difficult to know where everyone is going to design to,” he explained.

“Their car looks like it has less drag if we put the same wings on it. In the earlier part of the year, we were having to run very high [downforce levels], which was certainly not helping from that point of view.

“But if you look at Brazil, we didn't have the fastest car, but we could overtake them and we were able to get the 1-2. So making it quick in a straight line is not our highest priority. And one of the fastest in a straight line is the . So it doesn't define your performance level.

“But when you are very similar, obviously, it's a nice advantage to have. So it's something we'd like to fix. It's just that the priority will always be the base performance of the car and getting that in the right place.”

Mercedes managed to address most of its porpoising problems over the course of the campaign, but still encountered a few issues later in the season.

Shovlin says he is mindful of the problem returning as the team adds more downforce to the car over the winter, but he reckons new floor edge rules will also help it overcome some of its most obvious problems.

“The more you load up the floor, the more you can trigger those problems,” he said. “Where we have made very good progress is in the straightline. So back in Imola, Jeddah, Bahrain, all those early races, the car was bouncing really badly at high speed. And we managed to get a really good handle on that.

“There were still issues we got when the car rolled in a fast corner and the floor gets to a point where it's touching. And that can cause a bit of unsteadiness. But the rule changes for next year will help that.

“Fundamentally, though, they're not going to make the problem go away. They'll make it a bit easier for the teams. But we're hopeful that the work we put into the learning and the understanding in the early part of the year will help us at least develop to a good baseline next year.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/red-bulls-mohammed-ali-approach-was-its-f1-strength-says-ferrari/10408548/
DATE: 2022

Despite a lacklustre start to the campaign, when it struggled with reliability and was on the back foot in pace terms, Red Bull successfully turned its season around.

A combination of weight reduction and aero improvements to the RB18 made it the dominant car after the summer break, and  had nothing in response – especially when it stopped car development because of cost cap limits.

Reflecting on the ebb and flow of the 2022 season, Ferrari’s senior performance engineer Jock Clear felt that Red Bull got it right in ensuring it had the freedom with its spending to make steps forward when it needed to.

“I think that's probably Red Bull's strength this year, as they look to have been flexible,” said Clear.

“There were times when it was a bit of a Muhammad Ali approach. It looked like you've got them on the ropes and they just squirm a bit and come out and ‘bang’. And you are like: ‘Oh, my God, where did they find that?’

“I think that's just the experience they've had as world champions. And that's what we have to get used to doing.

“This year has been a great help. We've been at the front, we've been fighting at the front. We've learned a huge amount this year and we're on a steep learning curve, as are all the teams.”

Jock Clear, Driver Coach, Ferrari

Photo by: Simon Galloway /

Clear says one of the key things that Ferrari needs to understand better for 2023 is in how to deploy its resources over the campaign to maximise car performance and return under the cost cap.

He suspects Ferrari paid the price late in the season for committing more spending on car development early on, while Red Bull was more consistent throughout.

“The difficulty is to know where you're going to be spending your money most efficiently and most effectively,” he said. “And that has to take a little bit of planning.

“Of course, as that planning plays out, you learn that maybe you took some wrong decisions earlier on for a path you're now on.

“Red Bull have obviously done a very good job of reacting to where they've seen the pressure, but not losing sight of the fact that they have to focus on just bringing performance to the car.

“And I think from our point of view, we've done everything we planned to do this year. But it's a relative sport.

“So yeah, we have underperformed compared to Red Bull in the second half of the year, but you would say that  have left it all too late, if you see what I mean.

“Between the three teams, you've got us maybe pushing a bit too early on, Mercedes pushing a bit late, and Red Bull striking the right balance. And we have to learn from that.”

But while Ferrari was disappointed to lose out to Red Bull over the season, Clear says the scale of his team’s progress should not be underestimated.

“We've certainly made a big step forward this year,” he said. “We did come into the last few races and think, ‘oh, what could have been’, but it's amazing how quickly you reset your goals.

“And, if you had offered this 12 months ago, we would have ripped your arm off. We're very proud of what we've managed to do this year.

“It’s a big, big step forward. Now we have to maintain it. We have stopped developing this car earlier in the season with a view to making sure that we stay competitive next year and we are right on the nail at the first race.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/verstappen-focus-will-be-mainly-endurance-once-f1-career-is-over/10408334/
DATE: 2022

Two-time world champion Verstappen has previously said he did not expect to keep racing in F1 into his 40s, and that he is keen to sample other disciplines of motorsport.

Verstappen signed one of the longest contracts in F1 history when he penned an extension with Red Bull until the end of 2028 earlier this year, by which point he will be 31 years old.

In an interview with select media including Motorsport.com in Abu Dhabi, Verstappen said he did not expect to follow  or ’s longevity “mainly because there are too many races and being away from home too much.” He added that it was “also because I want to do other things in racing, other disciplines.”

“F1 is a lot of fun, and I'm having a lot of success at the moment,” said Verstappen.

“But I want to do other things as well. I know my contract runs until 2028. I will be 31 at that time. I'm probably still going to be competitive for a few more years after that.

“But in those years I also want to experience other things and just have a bit more fun with less pressure and less of a schedule.”

#8 Toyota Gazoo Racing Toyota GR010 Hybrid of Sebastien Buemi, Brendon Hartley, Ryo Hirakawa

Photo by: Marc Fleury

Asked what racing he would be interested in doing, Verstappen said it would be “mainly endurance”, having

Verstappen has sampled endurance racing in the Esports sphere, representing Team Redline in the Virtual Le Mans series. The Dutchman’s car event

In an interview with De Telegraaf in October, two-time Le Mans winner Alonso said he would like to team up with Verstappen to enter Le Mans, and they “should definitely give that a chance if we can drive for a competitive team.”

Verstappen joked that Alonso will “never stop racing” and is “probably a little different to me in that sense”, but that they would “need to have a good opportunity” to enter Le Mans together.

“If Fernando goes, he wants to challenge for the win in a competitive car, and I am exactly the same,” said Verstappen.

"That is also why I don't want to rush the whole project, just because there are so many changes happening at the moment in endurance.

"I think it is better to wait and see what is exactly happening now and to see how it's going to progress, and then make your mind up."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/horner-red-bull-firmly-had-a-target-on-our-back-off-track-in-f1-2022/10407981/
DATE: 2022

Red Bull swept to both championships in 2022 as  scored a record 15 victories in a single season to clinch his second drivers’ title.

finished third in the championship with two wins, helping Red Bull wrap up the constructors’ crown with three races to spare.

But Red Bull’s season was not without its setbacks, most notably when it received a $7 million fine and a cut on its aerodynamic testing for the next 12 months after breaching last year’s budget cap.

The team also challenged plans to change the aerodynamic rules for 2023 in reaction to the porpoising problem, believing the lobbying about the concerns was being done to help a “certain team.”

Asked by Motorsport.com if 2022 had been one of the toughest political seasons he has faced in F1, Horner replied: “Off-track, we’ve firmly had a target on our back this year.

“We’re a race team. We’re not a political organisation. We just focus on going racing and we’re hard racers, we push the boundaries, which is what race teams do if they want to succeed.

“That’s always been our approach. It’s always worked well for us. It’s the way we enjoy competing. At times, it’s felt it has been tough this year. That’s unfortunately Formula 1.”

Helmut Marko,Christian Horner, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Erik Junius

Red Bull made a slow start to the season after suffering three DNFs in the opening three races, including a double retirement at the opening round in Bahrain.

But the team bounced back in the fight against  before eventually pulling clear in the development race to dominate the second half of the season.

Horner felt the 1-2 finish Red Bull secured at the Emilia Romagna Grand Prix in April was an important moment to put pressure on Ferrari, which had surged into an early lead in both championships.

“Our team has done an amazing job in coming out with such a competitive car and bouncing back after a double DNF where Ferrari scored a 1-2 finish in Bahrain,” said Horner.

“We never lost sight of what our target was, and by the time we got to Imola, winning the sprint and the grand prix with our first 1-2 of the year, that allowed us to put pressure back on Ferrari and we didn’t give them the breathing space.

“We just kept efficiently developing the car, managing to lose a bit of weight. And Max has been in sensational form this year. You think back to some of the races earlier this year, it was so tight in the early races with Ferrari – you think of Miami, Saudi, even Bahrain.

“It’s been an incredible season for us.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/autosport-awards/news/red-bull-rb18-wins-autosports-international-racing-car-of-the-year/10407874/
DATE: 2022

The Red Bull RB18 Formula 1 contender has won Autosport’s 2022 International Racing Car of the Year Award presented by Blink Experience.

The RB18 helped Max Verstappen to his second world title with a record-breaking 15 grand prix wins from 22 races. Sergio Perez added two other victories as Red Bull scooped its sixth constructors’ crown.

Autosport readers have voted the RB18 the best racing car of 2022, ahead of the rival  F1-75, Mercedes-EQ Silver Arrow 02 Formula E title winner and BMW M4 GT3, which topped DTM.

Red Bull’s victory was announced on 4 December at the  at Grosvenor House on Park Lane, with chief technical officer Adrian Newey on hand to receive the trophy from  boss Zak Brown.

It is the sixth time a Red Bull has won the accolade, which was one of the first batch of  in 1982. Previous winners include the Porsche 956, McLaren MP4/4,  FW14B, Ferrari F2004, Brawn BGP 001 and  W11.

Other categories decided by fan voting include International Racing Driver of the Year presented by Pirelli, British Competition Driver of the Year, Rookie of the Year, Rally Car of the Year, International Rally Driver of the Year, National Driver of the Year and Esports Driver of the Year presented by .

Photo by: Erik Junius

Further awards, decided by expert judging panels, include the Aston Martin Autosport BRDC Young Driver of the Year Award, the Gold Medal for lifetime legacy, the Gregor Grant Award for lifetime achievement, Motorsport Promoter of the Year, and Esports Team of the Year presented by . Moment of the Year presented by Bang & Olufsen and Autosport Williams Engineer of the Future are awards that have returned for 2022.

To find out who our other Award winners are, go to /awards

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/red-bull-cost-cap-sanction-fair-despite-f1-rivals-wanting-blood-says-fia/10407664/
DATE: 2022

Red Bull was found guilty in October of having breached last year’s cost cap limit. It was handed a  as a punishment.

Many of Red Bull’s rivals had wanted much stricter sanctions laid down, but Sulayem thinks the FIA handled matters in the right manner, especially with cost cap rules being in their infancy.

“We learned a lot and a big review is going into it,” he said, when asked by Motorsport.com if he felt the cost cap punishment given out was enough of a deterrent.

“Who knows in the first year what is going to be the outcome? We didn't even expect it

“If you look at the other teams, they will say we have been light on them [Red Bull] And the penalty? Some of them want them to be hanged and they want to see blood. And the [guilty] teams themselves see it as huge on them. So where do you draw that?

“I mean, we have to be fair also. Do we want to get rid of them or we want them to be straightened up and not do it.”

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB18, Sergio Perez, Red Bull Racing RB18

Photo by: Sam Bloxham /

One aspect that Sulayem does want to see handled much better next year is the timing of cost cap investigations – which him suggesting that letting matters drag late in to the year is not ideal.

“The only thing I would say is what we did in September/October, it should be done early,” he said. “But as the first year, we learned a lot from it. And we're still learning. So it is better to come in May; not in October.”

Sulayem also suggested that the FIA was bolstering its personnel numbers to help better police matters, both on the financial regulations and other areas.

“The financial regulation has been the first year; policing it is very hard,” he added. “And that is why we have discussed also employees: three more in the financial side, three more in the chassis and the PU. So more recruitment is coming ahead.

“If you don't have the manpower and the proper people to police it, what's the use of having this regulation? I believe that there was a balance between finance and also the sporting penalties there.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/horner-fine-margins-on-2022-compounds-behind-perezs-f1-tyre-struggles/10407422/
DATE: 2022

Throughout his F1 career, Perez has carved out a reputation as being one of the strongest drivers when it comes to tyre management, particularly during his stints with Sauber and Force India.

But Perez admitted after the season finale in Abu Dhabi that he had struggled more with this year’s Pirelli tyres, which changed to 18-inch wheel rims and were designed to allow drivers to push more.

“I struggled a bit with these tyres this year, in terms of managing the tyres in the race,” Perez said.

“So hopefully that can be something that we will improve for next year, and generally just be a bit stronger.”

Perez’s tyre struggles proved costly in Abu Dhabi as he was forced to switch to a two-stop strategy after taking too much out of his front-right tyre in the early part of the race.

It cost the Mexican track position to , his rival for second place in the championship, and he was unable to make up the gap in the final stint, leaving him to finish third in both the race and the final standings.

Asked by Autosport/Motorsport.com about Perez’s tyre struggles this year, Horner noted how small set-up changes were now having a greater impact on how the tyres performed.

Sergio Perez, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

"What we’ve seen this year is the margins are so fine,” said Horner.

“You can be a click of front wing out, or a bit of ride height , or a small amount of mechanical balance, and it can have a dramatic effect on your tyre life.

“I think that Checo’s driven so many races where he’s been fantastic on the tyres. [In Abu Dhabi] it was just the first stint that compromised him, where the front right started to grain quite heavily compared to Charles and Max [Verstappen].

“That then put him out of sync where we had to pit and that was on a very compromised one stop. So the two-stop was the more attacking race.”

Perez struggled to sustain a challenge to Verstappen over the course of the season, winning two races to his team-mate’s 15 and finishing the year 149 points behind.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-reserve-drivers-all-teams-backup-2023/10437681/
DATE: 2023

Formula 1 teams are well underway preparing for the forthcoming 2025 campaign, which will consist of 24 grands prix beginning in Melbourne on the 14-16 March.

The grid is set and all but two teams -  and Aston Martin - have changed their driver line-up, meaning this year will have a new look.

But it is not just the full-time competitors that play a crucial role, as a team’s back-up driver does as well.

Reserve drivers act on standby during grand prix weekends and may contest one should a team’s regular driver be unable to. This happened at the 2024 Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, for example, as .

F1 teams also employ simulator drivers, who test changes made to the car so that everybody can gain a greater understanding of the machine.

So, who are the drivers supporting their team behind the scenes for 2025?

Liam Lawson served as Red Bull’s reserve driver at the start of the 2024 season, but then .

. This means Red Bull is currently without an official reserve driver, though Lawson’s former team-mate Yuki Tsunoda is expected to step into the role.

Meanwhile, Rudy van Buren will continue as Red Bull’s simulator test and development driver after joining in 2023.

Rudy van Buren, Red Bull F1 Simulator Test and Development Driver

Photo: Red Bull Racing

, but in a reserve driver capacity having been ’s team-mate from 2017 to 2021. The 10-time grand prix winner left for  - now  - having been replaced by George Russell, who was previously at  after graduating to F1 as a Mercedes junior.

But the Swiss outfit opted for an all-new line-up this year ahead of its Audi takeover in 2026, leaving Bottas without a drive. So, in December 2024 Mercedes announced that the Finn was back with the Silver Arrows replacing former reserve Mick Schumacher, who is part of Alpine's Hypercar programme.

Sharing the role with Bottas is the 2023 F2 championship runner-up Frederik Vesti, who started the position last year having become a Mercedes junior in 2021.

, having been part of its academy between 2015 and 2018. He initially left to become Renault’s development driver in 2019 before making his F1 debut with Alfa Romeo in 2022 but, like Bottas, he was dropped by the Hinwil-based outfit for this year.

He will work alongside , who was Zhou's predecessor at Alfa Romeo. The Italian became Ferrari’s reserve driver in 2022 and Giovinazzi also competes for the historic brand in the World Endurance Championship, where he won the 2023 Le Mans 24 Hours.

Regarding Ferrari’s development drivers, that includes Arthur Leclerc who joined in 2024. He is the younger brother of full-time Ferrari driver  and is joined by  and Davide Rigon.

Zhou Guanyu, Ferrari reserve driver

McLaren is yet to announce who its reserve drivers for 2025 are, with previous incumbent . But Arrow McLaren IndyCar driver Pato O’Ward has previously contested F1 practice sessions for the Woking-based team, so it is likely he will continue his commitments.

McLaren also employs , who spends a lot of time in the team’s simulator where he works closely with the engineers and regular drivers.

Aston Martin has retained Felipe Drugovich and  as its reserve drivers for 2025. Previously the team was able to call on the reserves of engine partner Mercedes in case of an emergency but in more recent years, Aston Martin has introduced its own reserve drivers.

While Vandoorne joined from Mercedes in November 2022, Drugovich has graduated from the Aston Martin driver development programme and the 2022 F2 champion has worked with the squad since 2023.

Felipe Drugovich, Aston Martin F1 Team

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Jack Doohan will contest his first, full campaign in F1 this year after serving as Alpine’s reserve driver in 2024 before replacing  at the Abu Dhabi season finale.

As a result, Alpine has announced Paul Aron, Ryo Hirakawa and Franco Colapinto as its reserve drivers for 2025.

Aron had a stellar F2 campaign last year, finishing third to champion Gabriel Bortoleto and Isack Hadjar, while Hirakawa has joined from McLaren where he held a similar role.

There is more hype around Colapinto though, who made his - relatively unexpected - F1 debut in Monza 2024 having replaced Logan Sargeant at . He impressed immediately finishing 12th before taking points at his second grand prix in Azerbaijan with eighth.

But Williams had already announced  as ’s team-mate for 2025, so there was no full-time seat for Colapinto. As a result, , where a spot may soon open up for the young Argentine given Doohan’s unsecure future.

Williams does not currently employ its own reserve driver, as previous incumbent Colapinto has left for the same role at Alpine after impressing for the British squad in his nine-round stint last year.

Jamie Chadwick, meanwhile, serves as its development driver after joining Williams in 2019 which is the year she clinched her first of three W Series titles.

Jamie Chadwick, Williams

Hadjar served as Racing Bull’s reserve driver last year, when it was known as . But following Lawson’s promotion, Hadjar will partner Tsunoda for his rookie season leaving Racing Bulls currently without an official reserve driver.

Considering its close ties with Red Bull though, the Faenza-based squad can call on whomever is in the Red Bull pool.

Zane Maloney and Theo Pourchaire have left the Sauber set-up since acting as reserve drivers last year. The Swiss outfit is yet to confirm who will support its all-new line-up of  and Bortoleto before the squad morphs into the Audi works team in 2026.

Haas is also yet to announce its reserve driver for 2025 having promoted previous incumbent Bearman to a full-time seat at the American squad. One option could be Pietro Fittipaldi though, as the grandson of double world champion Emerson joined the team in 2019 and in that time has started two races due to ’s crash at the 2020 Bahrain Grand Prix.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-tech-review-red-bull-design-secrets/10563204/
DATE: 2023

Let’s take a look at some of the car’s more impressive details, while also uncovering what changes  made during the course of the season to ensure its dominance.

Red Bull Racing wheelbase comparison (Anti-dive, inset)

A comparison of the RB18 and RB19’s front suspension arrangements showing not only how the elements were repositioned but how this was used to realign the car’s wheelbase. This decision would not only have an impact from a mechanical perspective but also from an aerodynamic point of view. We’re also able to see how the suspension has been laid out from an anti-dive perspective in the inset.

Red Bull Racing RB19 bottom view comparison

A comparison of the RB18 and RB19’s from beneath shows how the team developed its underfloor to deal with the changes in the regulations, which is more visually notable on the floor’s edge and with the change in approach when it came to their edge wing design.

Red Bull Racing RB19 diffuser

Another glimpse of the RB19’s underfloor reveals the complex geometries employed, with the twisted floor fences, midfloor contouring, stepped boat tail and multi kick diffuser profile all visible.

Red Bull Racing RB19 diffuser side view

A side view of the RB18’s floor and diffuser shows the ridged shoulder line of the diffuser roof and sidewall, whilst also showing off the detail of the mouse house in the sidewall.

Red Bull Racing RB19 floor fences

A great view of the floor’s leading edge, tunnel entrance and floor fences, all of which have complex geometrical features.

Red Bull Racing RB19, detail front wing

Red Bull started the season with a new addition on its front wing, as a small winglet was mounted in the lower rear corner of the endplate to help alter flow conditions and aid in generating outwash.

Red Bull Racing RB19 front caliper, yellow detail

In an effort to save weight, while also improving cooling, Red Bull’s front brake caliper features small tube fins (highlighted in yellow). The team also carried over their disc fairing solution used in 2022, albeit redesigned to better manage the temperatures and airflow passing through and around it.

Red Bull Racing RB19 technical detail

Similarly at the rear of the car, careful management of the airflow’s trajectory as it moves around the rear brake assembly is taken into account.

Red Bull Racing RB19 technical detail

Behind the more external airflow and heat management channels installed within the rear brake assembly, Red Bull also employs a brake disc fairing.

Red Bull Racing RB19 technical detail

A close up of the RB19’s rear end as the mechanics prepare the car for action reveals numerous interesting details, including the various panel gaps that make up the external facade of the rear crash structure, a view of some of the inboard suspension elements, the high inboard pickup points for the upper wishbone and the central metal cradle for rear wing mounting pillar, to name but a few.

Red Bull Racing RB19 technical detail

A close up of the C-Shaped floor section and floor edge wing mounted above that mimics its shape to create a two-tier element.

Red Bull Racing RB19 DRS detail

The DRS mechanism on the RB19, showing how the linkage attaches to the flap, while the hydraulic actuator controls its operation.

Red Bull Racing RB19 chassis section

The RB19 featured a more extreme V-shaped chassis layout in the lower half to help deliver more airflow quality to key areas aft of it.

Red Bull Racing RB18 steering inset

For comparison purposes, here’s the 2022 RB18 chassis, which also featured a V profile, albeit not as aggressive as the RB19’s.

Red Bull Racing RB19 technical detail

A look under the covers of the RB19 reveals some of the packaging details of the power unit and its various ancillaries, along with a glimpse of some of the inboard suspension elements.

Red Bull Racing RB19 detail

A close up of the outer floor fence but also note the panel used in the junction between the floor and chassis, which is heavily contoured.

Red Bull Racing RB19 technical detail

As you’d expect, given the difference in circuit characteristics between Bahrain and Saudi Arabia, Red Bull opted to reduce its downforce levels for the street circuit, not only with the introduction of a new shallower spoon-shaped rear wing arrangement but also with its choice of beam wing elements.

Red Bull Racing RB19 sidepods inlet comparison

Red Bull made changes to the layout of its sidepod inlet at the Azerbaijan Grand Prix, widening the aperture but reducing its height, in order to improve flow through the undercut beneath. It’s a design process that continued to be exploited too, as an even more adventurous variant arrived at the Hungarian Grand Prix.

Red Bull Racing RB19 radiator

A look at the RB19’s radiator design, which allowed the team to express its aerodynamic desires both internally and with the external sidepod bodywork.

Red Bull Racing RB19 sidepod detail

Another angle showing the changes made by Red Bull to reduce the sidepod inlet’s height but also widen the bodywork.

Red Bull Racing RB19 cooling detail

Additional cooling capacity for the Hungarian Grand Prix, with two cooling louvres utilised on the left-hand side of the car.

Red Bull Racing RB19 cooling detail

Red Bull almost exclusively used an asymmetric layout for the engine cover cooling louvre panel in 2023 with more cooling used on the right-hand side of the car, as a five-louvre panel was used in Hungary.

124-23 Red Bull Diffuser comparison

Alterations to the RB19’s diffuser corner (red arrow) also resulted in the rear kickline geometry being altered too, with a much narrower ramp being employed.

Red Bull Racing RB19 diffuser

The small ramped section of the diffuser, which borrows real estate from the upper surface, can be seen here from both sides (red arrow).

Red Bull Racing RB19 endplate comparison Singapore GP

Red Bull introduced their open-ended rear wing tip section variant at the Singapore Grand Prix, having seen a number of rivals already extract performance from similar solutions.

Red Bull Racing RB19 detail

Another view of the open-ended tip section, showing how it alter the size and shape of the rear endplate cutout.

Red Bull Racing RB19 new floor comparison

Alterations were also made to the floor’s edge in Singapore, with additional guide vanes added to the scrolled section of the edge wing, while the overall geometry of the surfaces were also tinkered with. It wasn’t raced in Singapore as the team tried to get on top of its issues but did return in Japan and was used thereafter.

Red Bull Racing RB19 technical detail

Another view of the floor and edge wing and how the two surfaces are paired to work in unison with one another.

Red Bull Racing RB19 floor side detail

Red Bull also took note of a design feature seen on the  W14 as it was craned away from the circuit in Monaco, with a series of small strakes added to the underside of the rear portion of the edge wing.

Red Bull Racing RB19 rear wing comparison, Las Vegas GP

Red Bull opted for different rear wing configurations at the Las Vegas Grand Prix, as ’s car was set up with a trimmed version of their lower downforce arrangement.

Here’s the list of the components that Red Bull listed as having changed in the car presentation document prior to each race.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/2024-f1-season-driver-lineup-calendar/10553574/
DATE: 2023

Last year was dominated by  and , with a few teams such as  and  starting to improve their car towards the end of the year.

is set for a name change in 2024 after its current title sponsorship will come to an end. The team is expected to change its name to the Sauber brand for 2024, before its transformation into the Audi works team in 2026.

Red Bull’s junior team  will also face a name change in 2024, with the team wanting to return to a non-branded name like it’s previous Toro Rosso guise. Although the rebrand is yet to be announced there is rumours the team could be called Racing Bulls.

Although there are not many massive changes heading into 2024, a new record-breaking 24 race calendar will make this the biggest year ever for the championship.

Here’s everything you need to know about the 2024 F1 season:

There are no changes to the 2023 F1 grid as we go into the new season. Every team has stuck with the drivers that they ended the season with, but many contracts set to expire at the end of 2024.

Daniel Ricciardo has also secured his place at AlphaTauri after the team axed  midway through 2023. Speculation that Sergio Perez could also lose his place at Red Bull following a difficult mid-season has been dismissed, which includes rumours that Ricciardo could be moved into the team next year.

Although the grid is not changing from the latter half of the previous season, 2024 could prove more interesting with 13 out of 20 seats up for contention at the end of next year.

F1 teams have begun to announce the dates for their 2024 car launches ahead of the new season. Pre-season testing begins on 21 February (two days earlier than 2023), so it is expected that teams will reveal their cars slightly earlier than the last season. In 2023, cars were launched between 31 January and 16 February.

Here are the F1 car launch dates for 2024:

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB19, Charles Leclerc, Ferrari SF-23, Carlos Sainz, Ferrari SF-23, Sergio Perez, Red Bull Racing RB19, the rest of the field at the start

30 August–1 September

29 November–1 December

The 2024 F1 season will begin on 29 February and will see a record-breaking 24 race season. The calendar has been regionalised by the FIA in an attempt to make the series more sustainable, including moving the Japanese GP to April from its usual September spot for a more defined Asian leg.

The Chinese GP will make its return to the F1 calendar after being cancelled for the last four years. The Qatar GP will become the penultimate race of the season, which should help with the heat issue faced by drivers in 2023 but will also make transportation of cars and equipment to the Abu Dhabi finale easier.

F1’s pre-season testing for 2024 will begin on 21 February in Bahrain. There will be three days of testing for the teams ahead of the first grand prix the following week.

The FIA has also revealed that pre-season testing will run each day between 10am to 7pm, instead of the previous 7:30pm which happened in 2023.

The testing sessions will take place in Bahrain to help with the FIA’s conscious efforts to make the series more sustainable. This means the cars and equipment will not need transporting between pre-season testing and the first grand prix of the year.

Testing will run between 10am and 7pm after the FIA reduced the timings down from 7:30pm.

Photo by: Mercedes AMG

Lewis Hamilton, George Russell, Mick Schumacher, Mercedes Reserve Driver, Toto Wolff, Mercedes F1 Team Team Principal and CEO, Mercedes W14

The FIA has made some changes to regulations around the testing of old cars, stipulating that any components run must have been previously used at a race weekend.  has been revised to state: "Cars must only use components and software of a specification that have been used in at least one (1) Competition or TCC (testing of a current car) of a Championship season."

The regulation change will ensure that teams cannot run any brand-new components on an old car to try and gain any date outside of testing restrictions.

The F1 teams have begun to announce their 2024 reserve drivers for the upcoming season. Some of the teams have retained their 2023 reserve drivers including Red Bull rookie Liam Lawson and Mercedes’ Mick Schumacher.

However some teams have decided to bring in brand new drivers, including McLaren who have announced two new drivers to their line-up. The team has announced it will sign this year’s 24 Hours of Le Mans winner Ryo Hirakawa and IndyCar driver Pato O’Ward as reserve drivers for the next season.

Photo by: Simon Galloway /

Sergio Perez, Red Bull Racing, 3rd position, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, 1st position, Lando Norris, McLaren, 2nd position, with their Sprint race trophies

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/newey-plans-for-more-active-aero-appropriate-for-f1/10561200/
DATE: 2023

F1 has long had active aero on cars – the rear-wing-opening overtaking aid, DRS, for instance, has been used since 2011 – but this is set to increase in the 2026 rules reset.

The FIA and the championship’s promoter are currently finalising the design rules for 2026 onwards, when simplified hybrid engines are also being introduced.

Early ideas, such as a , have been abandoned, but the FIA’s head of single-seaters, Nikolas Tombazis, recently said “there will definitely be a change of incidence of the wing on the straight to achieve the low drag" and "there will be something equivalent to the current DRS", that is possibly also used when cars are in corners.

When asked about the idea of expanding active aero use in F1 in an exclusive interview with Motorsport.com, Red Bull chief technical officer Newey said: “It doesn’t concern me.

“The more active aero is really to try to make up for a power unit that’s lacking in energy.

“The active aero becomes essential to make up for the power unit that’s lacking in energy. But I don’t think that’s a bad thing at all.

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Adrian Newey, Chief Technology Officer, Red Bull Racing

“Trying to drive for greater aerodynamic efficiency of the vehicle is clearly a good goal.

“And why should active aero not be part of that? After all, it’s become a part of it in road cars.

“There’s a huge amount of cars you see with spoilers lopping up and down on the boot lid and so forth.

“So, why not have that in racing? Active aero only got a bad name when wings were falling off back in the '60s. We’re well beyond that now.”

Newey also stated that “F1 typically has been a good way to popularise things on road cars”.

“If you look way back, things like disc brakes [that has been the case],” he added.

“But then [also] slightly more recently carbonfibre sportscars – fake or real carbonfibre trim etc.

“All those things that a buyer in the high street wants an association and manufacturers of course provide that association.

“So, active aero has to be the future of road cars, so I think it’s appropriate that Formula 1 should be showing, displaying the power of it.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/newey-not-planning-on-walking-away-from-red-bull-f1/10560649/
DATE: 2023

Newey, who celebrates his 65th birthday on Boxing Day, has been credited as being an essential part of turning Red Bull into a championship-winning machine upon his arrival in 2006.

He initially made a name in F1 with his first technical director role at Leyton House before moving to  and then , designing cars that won a combined six constructors' and six drivers' titles.

Red Bull team boss Christian Horner then prized him away from McLaren, with Red Bull's Newey-led car designs stealing a march on the field in the blown diffuser era between 2010 and 2013, and again since the introduction of the 2022 ground-effect cars.

But while Newey has much been less involved in the daily design work than previously, having free rein to pursue other projects, he continues to be a key asset and says he has no intention of leaving F1 just yet after signing a fresh deal earlier this year.

"Absolutely," he replied when asked by Motorsport.com if he still enjoys being part of Red Bull.

"When I joined Williams and McLaren, then they were two great teams that had won races and championships way before I ever arrived, so there was very little required on the infrastructure side, it was really just hopefully just trying to bring a bit on the design side.

"Whereas, and that’s really why I joined Red Bull, it was a bit of a career risk at the time, but I just wanted that sort of involvement again of being involved with the development of the team right at the start.

Photo by: Red Bull GmbH and GEPA pictures GmbH

Newey on the pitwall in 2006, his first season with Red Bull

"In that sense, having been involved in the start with Christian and Helmut [Marko], how we developed the team, then why would I want to walk away from that?"

Newey says the 2014 season, when  became the dominant force with its new turbo hybrid engines while Red Bull was stuck with uncompetitive power units from Renault, was the only point he considered walking away.

The only time it came close was in 2014 and that was for completely different reasonings," he explained. "Very simply, at that time, we had a power unit which wasn’t performing, which happens of course.

"And there didn’t seem to be a huge desire from the manufacturer at the very top level – not from the guys [in the factory], but from the very top level to put the investment in to turn that around.

"So, you’re then in a bit of a depressing position where, as we all know, to win championships you’ve got to have the three key factors of driver, chassis and engine – and if one of those is weak you won’t win."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/verstappen-needed-fire-of-lambiases-messages-to-reach-best-f1-levels/10560126/
DATE: 2023

The pair’s exchanges became the subject of regular focus in a season starved of alternative narratives overall thanks to Red Bull’s crushingly dominant position at the head of the pecking order.

When Motorsport.com asked the world champion about their relationship in an exclusive interview, Verstappen said he appreciated Lambiase’s often cutting tone.

“It’s how the relationship works,” Verstappen explained. “I would be very, not upset, but I wouldn’t want to have an engineer who is very monotone or just says ‘copy… check that’.

When asked if he needed to be challenged by Lambiase to perform at his best in 2023, Verstappen replied: “Yeah, you just need a bit of fire. That’s how I like to operate.”

The Dutch driver also said “I guess people love it” when it came to how much air time their often terse team radio exchanges were given in F1’s TV broadcasts in the season just gone.

“But that’s our relationship,” he continued. “We are very straightforward and if we don’t like something we of course communicate.

“It’s also a bit F1’s fault [that the messages get so much attention] because they broadcast everything just to throw it out there.

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, Gianpiero Lambiase, Red Bull Racing race engineer

“They don’t need to broadcast it – if you know what I mean. So, I guess they also like the excitement coming out.

“But, our relationship has never really changed in that manner. And also after the race we are absolutely fine because, of course, we are there to win the race.”

Verstappen also rejected a suggestion – put forward publicly by  driver  in the aftermath of the British GP – about his swearing on the radio.

Hamilton had joked “You know he’s serious when he puts the ‘F’ in front of it” after finishing third behind Verstappen and  racer  at Silverstone.

In the Austin race later in the 2023 season, Verstappen became vocally frustrated with Lambiase’s messages as he grappled with a brake problem as Hamilton bore down in the closing stages.

But he insisted any of his comments or radio tone at any time have “nothing to do with being under pressure”.

“[At Austin], I was just not happy with what was going on and I needed full focus just to concentrate on the braking to be consistent,” Verstappen explained.

“But, it’s good that they [other drivers] might think like that. But, for me, I’m never… Well, even if I am under pressure I’m not making mistakes anyway. So, it’s fine.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/what-if-red-bull-verstappen-never-raced-f1-2023/10558044/
DATE: 2023

humbles  then  in wheel-to-wheel combat plus profits from ’s engine failure to win the opening race of 2023. The two-time Formula 1 world champion’s Bahrain success marks his first victory since the 2013 Spanish Grand Prix.

sporting director Andy Stevenson earns his pay cheque by successfully protesting a 10-second penalty to cement another Alonso triumph in Saudi Arabia. What a winter recovery for a team that finished seventh in the 2022 constructors’ points!

But then Hamilton emerges unscathed from the late carnage down under to get off the mark aboard the capricious W14. Does this signal a blockbuster title fight lies in wait between the two ex-McLaren team-mates?

That’s what the narrative might have looked like after the first three rounds of the 2023 season in a hypothetical world where Red Bull does not compete in F1. Of course, simply wiping  and  from the results of 22 GPs only paints a two-dimensional picture.

It doesn’t, for example, restore  to the points in a Qatar sprint race from which he was eliminated in a multi-car collision involving  and Perez. Nor does deleting the RB19s turn back the clock for  to alter how he attacks Turn 1 in Brazil when it’s no longer pointless to burn through his Pirelli tyres if Verstappen will inevitably surge back past.

But it does indicate how tight the field was behind the Milton Keynes attack. Theoretically, remove the Red Bulls and there are six different GP winners (Alonso, Hamilton, Leclerc, Sainz, Norris and ), rather than the actual three (Verstappen, Perez, Sainz). The drivers’ championship is decided by just 17 points rather than the true 290-point chasm that opened between Verstappen and Perez, with Hamilton a further 51 points in arrears. The constructors’ crown also goes down to the wire, with only seven points settling the spoils.

As per reality, Aston Martin still endures a second-half drop-off after an overly flexible wing is outlawed and it gets dragged down the wrong development path by trying to run 2024-spec componentry (although, is the team so experimental if Red Bull is out of the picture and it’s in the title hunt?).

By the time the scores tail off, Alonso has six wins to his name to keep himself in contention versus Hamilton. But, heading into the Abu Dhabi finale, to wrap up a third title, he needs to win, and the Mercedes racer to fail to nick a point.

Instead, Alonso only outscores the Briton by four, thus confirming Hamilton as an eight-time champion. The Spaniard, by contrast, rues his latest near miss. He’s fewer than 30 career points away from having been a six-time title winner.

Photo by: Steve Etherington /

Hamilton would have wrapped up an eighth title were Red Bull not on the grid this year

Leclerc is a further 25 points further back in third, but Ferrari is buoyed heading into the Christmas break after winning the final two rounds in Las Vegas and Abu Dhabi. Norris fills a tightly packed Scuderia driver sandwich, as his 287 points play the 289 of Leclerc and Sainz’s 283. George Russell is cut adrift on 248, albeit with almost a century more than Piastri.

Despite Russell dropping behind both Ferraris, Hamilton’s heavy lifting enables Mercedes to return to the top of the constructors’ tree. The Three-Pointed Star ties Williams for second in the all-time winners’ list on nine titles.

Maranello loses out on a 17th crown by seven points, having narrowly outperformed its German rival in Brazil before thumping it in Vegas. Alas, Leclerc’s season finale triumph was not enough to change the tide as Sainz bookended Ferrari’s campaign with further engine trouble.

All told, to the surprise of no one, it’s a much more hotly contested campaign - albeit probably not in that top tier reserved for the 1982, 2012, and 2021 epics. One that might just keep a TV audience engaged for longer, potentially even help it begin to grow again.

Given how imbalanced the Red Bull driver pairing was in 2023, consider also what happens when only Verstappen is removed from the picture.

In this version of events, Perez counts six GP victories - including three wins from the first four rounds - to become Mexico’s first F1 world champion, even if he doesn’t top the podium again after Monza and, on home soil, he still potentially clatters Leclerc into Turn 1 to wipe out.

It’s a fine showing as he stretches 55 points (a smidge more than the real-world 51) clear of runner-up Hamilton.

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

Without Verstappen racing, team-mate Perez would have taken top honours

Most notable is what happens behind the top two. In an alternative world without Red Bull, the drivers’ standings retain the same order but everyone else moves up two places - albeit Daniel Ricciardo and Zhou Guanyu swap. But by only taking away Verstappen’s scores, Norris leapfrogs Alonso and Leclerc to score third place. With Verstappen out the way, the McLaren driver breaks his topflight victory duck to win five GPs aboard the upgraded MCL60.

Perez flying solo slots Red Bull into the middle of the pack, ending the year fifth in the constructors’ pile. Mercedes again edges Ferrari, while McLaren - like in real life but not in the non-Red Bull - gets the better of Aston Martin. Alpine retains its slot in no-man’s land, and Williams, AlphaTauri, Alfa Romeo and Haas are unchanged.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/max-verstappen-f1-hit-shocking-fee/10558565/
DATE: 2023

Verstappen will be reportedly charged over €1.2 million to for the superlicense he needs to compete again next year.

The three-time world champion won 19 of the 22 races in 2023 which, with licenses increasing in cost for every point a driver scores, will result in a massive charge from the FIA.

Thankfully for Verstappen, the hefty fee for next year won’t be paid by himself, as he revealed: “The team pays that, fortunately.”

He told Dutch broadcaster Viaplay: “I do think there should be some normal ratio in that. But you know, things like that get written down, and I don’t think anybody expected that there would end up being that many points scored.”

Red Bull is the only team to confirm they will pay the superlicence fee for Verstappen and it is not known whether his team-mate  or other drivers will have to pay their own fees.

Verstappen finished the season with 575 points in 2023, which is the most points ever secured by a driver in a season. However, Verstappen’s dominance has left the driver with an eye-watering cost to ensure he can drive next year.

The Dutchman had previously branded the costs as “absurd” where he added: “I don’t think it’s right that we have to pay so much. It’s not the case in other sports either. And there are more and more races.”

Fortunately for Red Bull the driver salaries and fees are not included in the FIA’s budget cap which ensures teams limit spending and gives a more level playing field to each team.

Team principal Christian Horner also told Viaplay: “I mean, it’s a luxury problem to have because we’ve had to score the points to generate the invoice. Thankfully, it’s outside of the budget cap. But yeah, it’s a big cheque to be writing to the FIA.”

An FIA superlicence is the highest type of licence available and is a mandatory requirement by any driver who wants to compete in Formula 1. The licence is awarded to drivers by the F1 governing body, the FIA.

The superlicence was first introduced in the 1990s, but a governing age was added in 2015, following Verstappen’s debut in 2015. Verstappen was 17 years and 166 days old when he first made his F1 debut, with the FIA adding the rule to prevent potentially unsafe and inexperienced drivers from competing.

Photo by: Sutton Images

Max Verstappen, Toro Rosso

Drivers must complete a series of requirements to be rewarded their superlicence, including being at least 18 years old when they would first compete in F1, hold a valid driving licence and pass an FIA theory test of the F1 sporting codes and regulations.

Those who have held a superlicence for the previous three seasons are still eligible to apply for a new one if they plan to make their return to F1. This means that drivers such as , who was dropped from  in the first half of the 2023 season, could reapply for their superlicence and make his F1 return in the next few years.

The mandatory superlicence reportedly consists of a €10,400 base figure that every driver must pay to ensure they can compete in the following season. There is also a reported additional charge of €2,100 for every point scored in the season that has just passed.

Verstappen secured 575 points in the 2023 season which comes with a staggering additional cost to the drivers superlicence, with each point achieved costing the driver an additional €2,100. Having scored 575 points in 2023, Verstappen’s licence fee is sat at €1,217,900.

Here’s the full list of how much each driver will reportedly have to pay for their 2024 superlicence:

According to these numbers, the total figure that the FIA will receive from F1’s drivers in 2024, to allow them to race, is €5,380,200.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/horner-red-bull-surprised-mercedes-stuck-to-f1-car-concept-that-clearly-failed/10558741/
DATE: 2023

After the two squads that fought for the 2021 world titles ended up racing in very different parts of the F1 pecking order at the start of the new ground-effect era, there was much expectation that  – along with  – might be able to close the gap to Red Bull’s new position as the championship’s dominator.

Both teams eventually adopted Red Bull’s downwash sidepod concept as the end of the 2023 campaign’s first half approached, but Horner told Motorsport.com in an exclusive interview at the Abu Dhabi season finale that his team had been surprised to see Mercedes and Ferrari had not taken that approach during the winter.

When asked if his team had been left feeling positive when Mercedes team boss Toto Wolff announced that his squad would be abandoning the W13/W14 car concept with the ‘zeropod’ sidepods at 2023’s first race, Horner replied: “Well, Toto tends to be a little dramatic anyway.

“I think what surprised us was that Ferrari had a very good car last year. And the natural evolution of that we expected it to be a very tight contender this year.

“We were very surprised to see Mercedes sticking with the concepts that had clearly failed the previous year.

“If you looked around the cars in pre-season, the cars that were closest in concept to us were the Aston Martin and .”

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

Christian Horner, Team Principal, Red Bull Racing

Horner also insisted Red Bull only began to feel it had the best chance to win both F1 world titles for the second season in succession when  won in Melbourne.

The Australian event was one where Red Bull was comprehensively defeated by Ferrari’s  in 2022 and so to do the reverse to all its rivals one year later, Horner said it provided his team with the confirmation it had been seeking about its overall chances for the year ahead.

“Certainly, coming out of Bahrain, we felt like, ‘we've got a really good package here’,” he explained. “But we didn't know whether it was circuit specific – temperature, conditions, asphalt.

“So, it's only when you've had a sample of two or three and you've gone to a couple of circuits that have been more troublesome, certainly for us the previous year, like Melbourne for example, that suddenly you're thinking, 'ok, no, this is really together'.

“And so yeah, it takes a sample of a few races to get a clear overview. Nobody was coming out of Bahrain getting too carried away.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-ferrari-vasseur-fia-wolff-saga-embarrassing/10558595/
DATE: 2023

Last week  between a team principal and FOM employee, amid dubious allegations that  boss Toto Wolff and his wife Susie, who runs the F1 Academy for FOM, had exchanged confidential information.

Less than 48 hours later the matter was dropped as the FIA  to prevent unauthorised disclosure of confidential information, but , who said they had their reputation harmed by the public nature of the probe.

Wolff's  counterpart Vasseur feels the whole saga was “quite embarrassing” and unnecessary as the FIA managed to clear the Wolffs shortly after going public with the probe, which suggests there was no need to issue a public statement in the first place.

“I think this story is quite embarrassing for our sport,” Vasseur said when asked by Motorsport.com if he was worried by the incident and its implications on the already frosty relationship between FOM and the FIA.

“The story started with an article in a newspaper, I don't know if newspaper is the right word. And I think in this situation when you are speaking about an individual, you have to take care of what you are saying.

“I think it would have been appropriate from the FIA; they needed 24 hours between the [first] announcement and the second announcement. It would have made sense to use the 24 hours before the first announcement [to investigate], to avoid any bad conclusions."

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Toto Wolff, Team Principal and CEO, Mercedes AMG, wife and Susie

The probe was launched amid suggestions that rival teams had complained about the Wolffs to the FIA, but one day later  and denying they were behind the probe.

Vasseur pointed out that if anything good had come from the whole saga, it was that all 10 teams were united on a certain topic, which is a rare occurrence in F1.

“After the 'incident' of last week at least the teams were very united,” he added. “The first conclusion for me is that we were able to act together and it's not very often that even  was supportive of Toto! [Vasseur laughs]

“And honestly, I think it's a good point for us also to take position and to discuss with the other stakeholders. I think it's the first time the teams together showed something like this.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-2023-team-mate-head-to-head-battles/10558543/
DATE: 2023

out-qualified  team-mate  yet again in the season finale, which meant the 27-year-old finished the F1 season as the only driver to have out-qualified his team-mate for every race in 2023.

Sargeant struggled in his rookie campaign with Albon always proving superior, but other driver pairings were much closer. So how did each driver compare to their team-mate in the 2023 F1 season?

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Arguably one of the most one-sided pairings in 2023 was Red Bull, as Verstappen proved too much for Perez. The triple world champion clinched the title with six grands prix to spare and set many records in doing so.

One record was for the biggest points gap to second in the championship, with the margin bigger than the total points Perez amassed across 2023. While Verstappen was consistently claiming the race wins, Perez often struggled for a podium finish despite Red Bull’s superiority over the rest of the grid.

Perez did start the season pretty well with two victories in the opening four races, as well as second in Bahrain. But from Miami onwards, Verstappen took it to another level leaving Perez to struggle and doubts to linger over his Red Bull future.

The pressure is on the Mexican to improve significantly in 2024, which is the final year of his contract.

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Hamilton bounced back from a disappointing 2022 where Russell, in his first season at Mercedes, beat him in the standings and became the third team-mate of the seven-time world champion - after  (2011) and  (2016) - to do so.

But the roles reversed in 2023 and Russell said “this year the drivers’ championship has just been a complete disaster”. Hamilton, meanwhile, was one of F1’s best, being the highest-placed driver behind Red Bull’s pair in the standings with a pole position in Hungary his standout result.

Nevertheless, on the whole it has been a disappointing season for Mercedes who failed to claim a race victory for the first time since 2011. Much work is to be done if they are to improve on their second-place finish from 2023 and become world champions once again.

Crucial to that target is the drivers, who remain committed to the project having recently signed new contracts. Hamilton and Russell have a good relationship with much respect between the two, despite their collision in Qatar where the 38-year-old retired on lap one after turning in on his team-mate at the opening corner.

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Carlos Sainz, Scuderia Ferrari with Charles Leclerc, Scuderia Ferrari watching a magic show

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

5 (includes 1 DNS and 1 DSQ)

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Leclerc and Sainz have been team-mates for three seasons now, yet it’s always close between the two. 2023 was a clear example of that as just six points separated both drivers in the championship going in the favour of Leclerc, but Sainz might be the happier one as it’s him who got the race victory.

Meanwhile, Leclerc often has the upper hand in qualifying, winning that battle 15-7 - including five pole positions compared to Sainz’s two. Things might be tight, yet 2023 was not their closest statistically as Sainz beat Leclerc in the 2021 championship by just five and a half points.

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Norris comfortably beat former team-mate  in the championship for two consecutive years, so McLaren wanted closer competition in 2023. Piastri gave it exactly that as he impressed in his rookie season which earned the 22-year-old a new contract that expires in 2026.

While the head-to-heads ended at 17-5 and 15-7 to Norris in the grand prix and qualifying battles respectively, much of that was at the beginning of the year when Piastri was still trying to adapt to F1. Once he did, things were much closer.

Piastri out-qualified Norris in five of the 10 grands prix after the summer break, which included a victory in the Qatar GP sprint race, while a win of any kind in F1 still eludes the Briton.

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

was a much-improved team in 2023 as they jumped up to fifth in the championship after finishing seventh in 2022. This included eight podiums and three front-row starts, yet that was all done by Alonso who dominated team-mate Stroll.

While Alonso was often fighting for podium positions, Stroll was in the midfield, with the Canadian only achieving three top-five finishes - two of which came in the final three grands prix. But his seat is still secure for 2024 where he will hope to close the gap on Alonso.

Aston Martin also need to ensure its results remain consistent throughout a season. Its form tailed off towards the end of 2023 as six of Alonso’s podiums came in the opening eight grands prix, which left Aston Martin third in the constructors’ championship until they fell behind Ferrari and McLaren in the final 14 rounds.

Pierre Gasly, Alpine A523, Esteban Ocon, Alpine A523

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

There was very little to separate the Alpine team-mates in Gasly’s first season with the team, but Ocon could blame that on misfortune. He retired more times than any other F1 driver in 2023, much of which was down to reliability - his failed gearbox in Singapore being just one example.

This led to the drivers being matched head-to-head in race results, but Gasly comfortably beat Ocon in the qualifying battle. That might give Gasly extra satisfaction considering it’s against Ocon, who has been his rival since childhood.

There was much anticipation at the beginning of 2023 over how the two will fare as team-mates given their history - the two often collided when competing against each other as children in karting - but on the whole Ocon and Gasly have worked well together and things have not flared up.

That’s despite it being a disappointing season for Alpine, who finished sixth - two places lower than their position in 2022.

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Williams very much had the most one-sided driver pairing in 2023. Albon really impressed this season with several point finishes and Q3 appearances, therefore showing why he is capable of leading the team forward.

Yet it was a different story in the opposite side of his garage. Sargeant struggled during his rookie season which is evident in the qualifying record versus Albon, while only beating him in three grands prix. However, those three occasions were because Albon retired so in races where both drivers finished the Thai-British driver was always ahead.

Sargeant did score a point, but it only came as a result of Hamilton and Leclerc being disqualified from the United States GP. Despite the struggles, Williams has retained Sargeant for 2024 so he should do much better in his sophomore year.

Points scored during brief spell as team-mates

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix wins during brief spell as team-mates

Pole positions during brief spell as team-mates

Podiums during brief spell as team-mates

Best finish during brief spell as team-mates

Retirements during brief spell as team-mates

Fastest laps during brief spell as team-mates

Grand prix points finishes during brief spell as team-mates

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint race wins during brief spell as team-mates

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Sprint race podiums during brief spell as team-mates

The team-mate battle at AlphaTauri is very messy given how many times the team changed its line-up in 2023. Beginning the season was Tsunoda and de Vries until the F1 rookie was dropped after 10 grands prix for poor performances.

De Vries left AlphaTauri having failed to score a point while at the time, Tsunoda had two. The 23-year-old comfortably won the qualifying battle as well, as de Vries struggled throughout his tenure with six bottom-five finishes including two retirements.

Photo by: Jake Grant /

Daniel Ricciardo, Scuderia AlphaTauri, Yuki Tsunoda, Scuderia AlphaTauri

Points scored during brief spell as team-mates

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix wins during brief spell as team-mates

Pole positions during brief spell as team-mates

Podiums during brief spell as team-mates

Best finish during brief spell as team-mates

Retirements during brief spell as team-mates

Fastest laps during brief spell as team-mates

Grand prix points finishes during brief spell as team-mates

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint race wins during brief spell as team-mates

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Sprint race podiums during brief spell as team-mates

Ricciardo replaced de Vries for the Hungarian GP, which marked his return to F1 after leaving McLaren at the end of 2022. Ricciardo immediately had the better of Tsunoda by beating him in qualifying and the race at the Hungaroring, but the Japanese driver levelled both scores a week later in Belgium.

Yet Ricciardo then spent a lengthy time on the sideline, as he broke his hand during second practice for the Dutch GP. He returned two months later at the United States GP where things were once again tight between Ricciardo and Tsunoda.

In the final five grands prix, Tsunoda out-qualified and out-raced his team-mate on three occasions while scoring 15 points compared to Ricciardo's six. The two will remain team-mates in 2024, where there’s potentially a shot at a Red Bull seat for the following season.

Points scored during brief spell as team-mates

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix wins during brief spell as team-mates

Pole positions during brief spell as team-mates

Podiums during brief spell as team-mates

Best finish during brief spell as team-mates

Retirements during brief spell as team-mates

Fastest laps during brief spell as team-mates

Grand prix points finishes during brief spell as team-mates

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint race wins during brief spell as team-mates

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Sprint race podiums during brief spell as team-mates

While Ricciardo was injured, Red Bull junior Lawson stepped in to become Tsunoda’s third team-mate of 2023. Lawson, who finished third in the 2022 F2 Championship, immediately impressed coming close to points in Zandvoort and Monza before a ninth-place finish at the Singapore GP after he pulled off a shock Q3 appearance at Marina Bay Street Circuit.

Lawson then finished 11th in Japan, but was well out of contention in Qatar for his final grand prix. In terms of race results, he performed better than Tsunoda and was therefore touted for an F1 seat in 2024 but that did not present itself. Lawson will be the team’s reserve driver next year, but the expectation is that he will eventually be on the grid full-time.

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Zhou is firmly holding his own against Alfa Romeo team-mate Bottas, with the 10-time grand prix winner beating the Chinese driver by just four points in the championship. It came in Zhou’s second F1 season, where he also narrowly lost the grand prix battle against Bottas.

But qualifying is where Zhou needs to improve as Bottas won that battle comfortably. On the whole though, it was an underwhelming year for the team with Alfa Romeo finishing ninth in the championship.

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Kevin Magnussen, Haas VF-23, leads Nico Hulkenberg, Haas VF-23

Championship standings

Grand prix results head-to-head

Qualifying head-to-head

Grand prix points finishes

Sprint results head-to-head

Sprint shootout head-to-head

Hulkenberg made his return to F1 in 2023 after losing his full-time seat with Renault at the end of 2019. Yet it was like he’d never been away as he beat team-mate Magnussen in the championship, while winning both race and qualifying battles quite comfortably.

That driver pairing was one to watch in 2023 due to their history together, where at the 2017 Hungarian GP Hulkenberg called Magnussen “the most unsporting driver on the grid” after being pushed off the track while attempting an overtake.

However, there was very little drama between the two in their first year as team-mates and they actually worked pretty well together. Hulkenberg and Magnussen have been retained by Haas for 2024, but they will be hoping for a more competitive car after the team finished bottom of the championship.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/red-bull-20kg-weight-purge-for-cut-and-shut-rb19-was-key-to-f1-2023-dominance/10558128/
DATE: 2023

The Milton Keynes-based squad was in a class of its own throughout the 2023 season, winning 21 out of 22 races on its way to capturing both the constructors' championship crown and the drivers' title with .

And while its rivals focused their efforts on trying to work out why Red Bull's car was so good, the squad has suggested that central to it was weight.

Red Bull team boss Christian Horner has explained that, with much of the car actually being a carryover from the RB18, the biggest step change was cutting out excess bulk that had left it so overweight throughout 2022.

Asked by Motorsport.com if Red Bull understood why the RB19 was so dominant, Horner said: "What you have to remember is that with the RB19, there were a large number of components that came from the RB18: gearbox, a large percentage of the suspension, and half of the chassis. It was effectively a cut-and-shut for this year.

"The most significant thing that we were able to address was the weight. We were so late going on to the new regs in 2021, because of that championship battle [the previous year] that the car in 2022 was a bit on the chunky side.

"So, we managed to get 20 kilos out of the car coming into this year, and tidy up some of the imperfections.

"But there were a great many carryover parts and some of the components have actually won, in Max's case, 19 races this year and 15 last year, so the combination of the two: 34 races."

Horner believes that the weight reduction was the biggest step between the RB18 and the RB19, as he said improvements had been found in all areas.

"It was a little bit everywhere," he said. "It was not one specific area that you could take the weight off. It was just marginal gains in all areas.

"I think that was probably the fundamental difference between the 2022 car and the 2023 car."

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB19

Pushed on whether the RB19 progress pointed to Red Bull having been 20kg overweight on its way to the 2022 crown, Horner said: "Yeah. We were carrying that deficit for a large percentage of the year."

The one that got away

While the RB19 proved to be one of the most dominant cars in F1 history, it failed to get the clean sweep of all race wins thanks to defeat in Singapore.

Looking back at what happened that weekend, Horner said that the team had been led down the wrong path in Friday practice by simulation predictions.

"I think that that race just brings everything into reality, that I think quite often we made winning look easy this year," he said. "Winning is never easy.

"I think that race just bought it home that if you miss the target, it's small margins. Set-up wise, we arrived with a set-up that our simulation tools led us down the route of, and it just didn't work on that circuit, on that day, particularly in qualifying.

"In the race the pace started to come back to us. But I think if we'd have known what we knew after the event going into the event, we would have been in a much more competitive position."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-las-vegas-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp1/1123648/
DATE: 2024

And with that, it is time to head off for a break. We'll be back at 5:45am GMT ahead of FP2 but for now, here is the full session report from the first outing of the weekend. As ever, thanks for your company!

Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes F1 W15

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

It should be noted, even Hamilton's session best time was roughly three seconds off the pole lap of 12 months ago, highlighting the evolution that is yet to come in the following sessions.

By the time FP1 came to a close, both the air and track temperatures had dropped by three degrees. This fall is expected to continue into FP2, which takes place at a similar time to both qualifying and the race.

"That was the first session we've had since Toto Wolff's comments on Hamilton's "shelf-life" emerged - the Mercedes boss has since moved to explain what he meant - but for the seven-time world champion that was a response that will have had him smiling under his helmet, while his face flashed up the Vegas night as it shone from the Sphere"

"I know it was only first practice, but that was another unimpressive run for Sergio Perez. His best time is only good enough for 10th place on the time sheets. Time is running out for him to prove he deserves to retain his seat at Red Bull next year. The other aspect is that Red Bull need him to start delivering points if they are to claw back their way into contention to win the constructors' championship."

Completing practice starts on the grid, Verstappen has massively overshot the grid box. Were that to happen in the race, he would be in hot water for that one.

Hamilton's final lap was 0.396s up on Russell. He has 0.953s over Norris in third and all other drivers are over a second back.

And Hamilton moves to the top with a 1m35.001s. With no one else on a hot lap, he will exit the car as the fastest man in the session.

Hamilton is into the final sector of his final effort, as he goes purple in sector one.

The chequered flag flies and Sainz is the first driver to take it.

"So far, so good for the new FIA race director, Rui Marques. Not major incidents like we saw last year so he has been able to easy himself into the big seat left vacant by Niels Wittich, who left the role after the Sao Paulo Grand Prix. We have Toto Wolff in the press conference later, so it will be good to get his thoughts on the shock departure and what he makes of Marques."

Hamilton goes top, but Russell is faster still with a third consecutive flying lap, moving to a 1m35.397s.

And we're about to see what Hamilton can do with soft, as he begins his first timed effort on the compound.

As the click ticks below five minutes, Russell returns Mercedes to the top with a 1m35.619s.

"It is another cold one in Vegas tonight, as soon as the sun disappears the temperature really does drop. While the FP1 action might not set pulses racing, race organisers will be happy to come through unscathed after last year. The fans who have come out for the first running are also making the most of it...maybe just to warm up!"

We're seeing a decent number of drivers in the pits now, we're probably going to see some warm tyres bolted on for a round of closing flying laps to end the session.

Hamilton is the only driver not to have tried soft tyres yet in this session.

10 minutes remain in FP1.

Up from 14th to sixth for Verstappen, but he remains 0.807s off the pace of Norris.

Verstappen reports a "connection issue" with his steering wheel, complaining that the radio "went on by itself". A peculiar problem, for sure.

McLaren has shown its hand for the first time this weekend, with Norris the first driver below 96s, putting in a 1m35.954s, as team-mate Piastri improves to fourth, sandwiching the Ferrari drivers.

Hamilton and Russell are out again but on medium tyres.

But he's immediately forced back by Ferrari team-mate Sainz who hammers in a 1m36.218s.

The first change at the top for a while, as Leclerc now puts in a 1m36.430s to better Hamilton by 0.497s.

And we've had confirmation of a five-place grid penalty for Bottas, after the Sauber driver has had a fourth energy store fitted to his car.

Yellow flags were briefly displayed again there - no explanation why quite yet.

On softs, Leclerc puts in a purple middle and personal bests in the other two sectors to move up to second, behind only Hamilton.

Magnussen is on it once again, moving up to third for Haas. This is the freedom of a driver knowing they aren't driving for their future.

"We have a voice but we don't have a vote," McLaren Racing CEO tells Sky Sports on the changing of the F1 race director. He hopes the move is a "step forward".

On the plus side, no drain issues to this point!

From 10th to third for Norris. The times have largely stabilised for the moment, but with another round of fresh rubber, the picture could all change very quickly.

Highlighting the pit entry issue, Albon has now been shown the same black and white flag as his Williams team-mate for crossing the white line.

"The pit entry line is almost impossible to see," reports Russell. With all the lines of the road, it is hugely difficult to pick out.

As per Chandhok's suggestion, a thick yellow line would clear up any confusion there.

An odd problem for Piastri here, as his McLaren refuses to switch off as his mechanics push the car back into the garage. It's eventually fixed, but as per the roll hoop lights, it was an electrical issue.

Currently, Mercedes enjoy a 1-2 led by Hamilton, with Leclerc leading a Ferrari 3-4. Championship players Norris and Verstappen are 10th and 9th respectively.

While the track is never going to fall completely silent during a session this weekend, half the grid have returned to the pits, resulting in a quieter track.

The first black and white flag of the weekend goes to Colapinto. Currently in 18th, he failed to follow the race director's event notes and crossed the white line on pit entry.

Proving how difficult the conditions are, Verstappen runs deep at the end of The Strip following a heavy lock up - his Red Bull screaming as it slid past the cameras.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-race-1123853/1123854/
DATE: 2024

and  will launch from the front row of the grid in Abu Dhabi as  looks to seal a first constructors' title since 1998.

, who secured McLaren's latest crown of any description with his maiden 2008 drivers' title, makes his final bow for  before his switch to , while , , ,  and  all start in F1 for potentially the last time.

The race gets under way at 13:00 GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-bahrain-pre-season-test-day-1-1121307/1121308/
DATE: 2024

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB20

Photo by: Steven Tee / Motorsport Images

Mercedes F1 W15 last flap

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

C3? We can see a few more than that! Mercedes opted for 25 sets of the medium tyre compound for the Bahrain test, more than any other team, having decided to take only two sets each of the C1 and C2. As the Bahrain track surface is so rough, the C3 will serve as next weekend's softest compound - so the team has already got an eye on the season opener.

Photo by: Jake Boxall-Legge

Spot the inlets either side of the top of Verstappen's helmet. Red Bull's design department certainly wasn't relaxing over the winter.

Red Bull Racing RB20 detail

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

A beautiful tribute. 🧡Lando is sporting our late friend Gil de Ferran’s helmet, a beloved member of the McLaren family who worked closely with Lando and all of the team.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/red-bulls-austin-f1-update-reversed-balance-issues-at-cost-of-overall-potential/10690469/
DATE: 2024

floor update for the 2024 United States Grand Prix came at the expense of ultimate car "potential" but removed many of the correlation and balance issues that affected its RB20, according to technical director Pierre Wache.

The development direction of the RB20 hit a problematic streak at the tail end of the European season last year, culminating in a difficult Monza weekend at the start of September where it finished sixth and eighth.

This led to  stating at the following Baku weekend that Red Bull would be putting further planned developments "in the bin" with the intent of reserving the team's waning form.

Wache says the Austin upgrade that appeared over a month later set the wheels in motion to reverse the arrears and explained that, although this lowered what Red Bull perceived as the RB20's ultimate ceiling, it delivered more instantly accessible performance.

This was despite the apparent declaration of a small upgrade in the FIA's pre-event technical documentation that reveals the new parts that teams have introduced at a given weekend.

"We modified the floor and could remove some correlation issues," Wache told Motorsport.com. "It came with a loss of the overall car potential, but we massively improved the correlation and a lot of balance characteristics.

"But as I have said before, it is not enough yet. The package did exactly what we wanted. The aero department did a very good job on that.

"It means that our understanding of the issues was correct and that we moved into the right direction.

"It doesn’t mean that we have fixed everything, but at least we have improved the balance characteristics a lot.

Pierre Wache, Technical Director, Red Bull Racing

"The FIA document just applies to the shape and the parts that you changed, that doesn’t mean the characteristics and the number of downforce points that you have gained from those changes.

"The upgrade package was bigger, although I don’t know what the others have done. But we told the truth: we modified the floor, we found a big delta in terms of load, and we correlated it a lot better to the wind tunnel."

Wache explained that Verstappen had previously been able to mitigate the balance issues with his driving, but the low-downforce nature of Monza exposed the RB20's true issues.

The Frenchman felt that it was 'positive' to endure a difficult weekend to ensure Red Bull could start moving in the right direction for the final flyaway rounds.

"I think it is clear that when you have a balance issue and start to reduce the downforce, the underlying balance starts to become even more dominant for the lap time and the feeling of the driver," Wache contended.

"That is especially true for the driver we have in Max. He can filter quite a lot of those balance issues with his talent.

"It is clear that a low-downforce track reduces the possibility for a driver to filter these balance issues.

"In some ways that weekend has been very positive for us, because it massively highlighted the problems we had."

Despite Verstappen's assertion that the expected upgrades were canned after Monza, Wache says Red Bull was "already working" on the balance problems faced by the team - and Austin merely vindicated its findings.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/horner-verstappen-never-panicked-on-way-to-f1-title-despite-red-bull-deficit/10684557/
DATE: 2024

Red Bull team principal Christian Horner has commended ’s work ethic and state of mind after the Dutch driver clinched the 2024 Formula 1 title despite his car’s struggles.

Red Bull’s season got off to a flying start with Verstappen winning six of the first nine grands prix, leading 1-2s in Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Japan.

However, Verstappen subsequently went through a nine-round winless streak – which was unprecedented for him since the 2020 season – as  surged to the front of the field while  and  contended for race wins as well.

“It almost felt like something changed dramatically,” Horner explained to Motorsport.com in an end-of-season interview. “Suddenly three other teams became competitive, and we suddenly started to experience some issues that became very limiting.

“Then it was a question of ‘and then your tools don't correlate with what's going on on track’. And that's when the driver really becomes a key element.

“And Max never panicked. Even on the tough days, he spent the long hours with the engineers really rolling his sleeves up and getting stuck in. Working behind the scenes on the simulator, spending the time with vehicle dynamicists and aerodynamicists just talking through ‘OK, this is where you need to focus, this is where the key issue is with this one’, based on what he's feeling.

“When your tools don't tie in with the circuit, the best sense of that you've got is the driver. And that's where Max was hugely impressive this year – the leadership that he inspired from within the car for the direction that we needed to take to address some of the issues.”

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB20, and Oracle Red Bull Racing Team Principal Christian Horner

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

Horner insisted on the crucial impact Verstappen had in terms of technical feedback when the team needed to uncover the source of the RB20’s woes.

“He is just very straight to the point of what are the limiting factors and what are the characteristics that the car is giving him that are limiting him from going quicker. So, he will pinpoint very clearly: ‘This is where there is lap time, focus on this area.’

“During the middle part of the season, the tools weren't really correlating with the circuit, and that's where he had to play a very key role in giving the engineers the key focal areas of where they needed to put time and effort to improve.

“And we've then seen at the back end of the year performance start to come back on the car.”

Verstappen managed to retain his early advantage in the standings and clinch the title by making fewer mistakes and proving more consistent than chief rival  and other drivers, never finishing a grand prix outside the top six.

Horner said his driver’s performance was down to his “tenacious driving, strategy, and teamwork”.

“What’s really stood out this year is the way that Max has driven,” the Briton added. “On days that he couldn't win, he bagged the points.

“He just adapts incredibly well to what he's got. And what he showed, really, this year is just another level of maturity and experience. I thought races that he drove in places like Zandvoort, Singapore – the days he couldn't win but was still bringing home hard-earned points – were incredibly important.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/the-complications-and-negotiations-behind-perezs-red-bull-exit/10683434/
DATE: 2024

It had been pretty clear for a while that  would  on the back of his troubled 2024 campaign.

However, what was not so obvious was exactly how the parting of ways would play out because of the complications caused by him having a firm contract.

That was the result of the decision made by Red Bull in June to hand Perez a two-year extension for 2025 and 2026 in a move the team thought would settle him down.

As Red Bull team boss Christian Horner admitted earlier this month about that call: “We elected to go early - which obviously didn't work. That's just life sometimes.”

Once committed to it though, there was no way Red Bull could change its mind and simply decide itself that it preferred to do something different.

In the big-money world of F1, drivers and their managers do not simply agree to rip up multi-million pound contracts and walk away without some form of deal being put on the table.

And a chief weapon in Perez’s armoury was his veteran manager Julian Jakobi, who is well known for driving a hard bargain, having worked with the likes of Ayrton Senna, Alain Prost and  in his lengthy career in F1.

Sergio Perez with manager Julian Jakobi in 2021

Photo by: Steven Tee / Motorsport Images

Red Bull was well aware of the contractual situation over the closing stages of the season, when it was clear on performance grounds that it wanted to make a change but equally understood there were other factors that clouded the situation.

It knew it needed Perez to concede ground himself about the realities of the situation he was in.

Achieving the desired outcome is never straightforward though because, when it comes to reaching a deal to end contracts, there is an obvious game that is played by the two sides. If you are the one that you know the other party wants to get rid of, then it is best to repeatedly make it clear that you have every intention of seeing things out. You see this happen time and again when people know that there is a chance they are going to be moved on – so they dig their heels in.

One famous example was at the 2021 Brazilian Grand Prix, when then Aston Martin boss Otmar Szafnauer’s days were numbered as he became linked with a switch to . Speaking in a press conference that weekend and asked about his future, his stance was defiant but specific in its wording: "I've been at the team for 12 years, I have no intention of leaving.” Two months later his departure was finally confirmed as an exit package was put in place.

Playing hard ball over seeing out a contract means that once the lawyers come in, then they can argue that any move to terminate the contract has to be compensated with the biggest pay-off possible.

If you let slip that you are open to a deal, or that you are thinking of walking anyway, then it weakens your hand in negotiations.

This was the battle that appeared to be playing out in the closing stages of the season as Perez, well aware the writing was on the wall, dug ever deeper about his determination to race on with Red Bull and explain his conviction that he would remain with the squad.

Sergio Perez, Red Bull Racing RB20

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

In Abu Dhabi he said: “Nothing has changed since before in terms of what I've said for the entire year. I’ve got a contract for next year and I will be driving for Red Bull next year.”

Red Bull equally knew that it could not simply just dump Perez on a whim – as F1’s Contracts Recognition Board would likely have got involved if there had been any breach in what had been signed.

That meant an agreement would have to be reached, which is why Red Bull was always eager for Perez to accept himself that a way out had to be negotiated. As early as Qatar, Red Bull team principal Christian Horner talked about Perez taking on board himself that things were not working.

“It's not an enjoyable situation for Checo being in this position with speculation every week,” he said. “He's old enough and wise enough to know what the situation is and let's see where we are after Abu Dhabi.”

Once Red Bull’s shareholders had agreed in a meeting in Dubai on the Monday after the season finale that they could not continue with Perez, the matter then became one of getting a deal across the line.

And, as revealed by Horner, when he and Perez sat down last week to discuss matters, there was an acceptance from both of them that their futures would not be together.

Horner told Sky Sports F1: “He [Perez] reflected after the season, and we sat down and discussed it last week about what are the next steps? And he decided that he's going to take a bit of time out, take a sabbatical from F1 essentially, and he'll still be involved with the brand and the team, but he's stepping back from driving duties moving forward. It was sad to see him leave the team, but obviously it's time for him to spend with his young family as well and reflect on what he wants to do for the future.”

Christian Horner, Team Principal, Red Bull Racing, Sergio Perez, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

So, it ultimately then became a matter of crossing the t’s and dotting the i’s.

While F1 is a series where the obsession is over hundredths of a second, when it comes to contracts, lawyers and managers, it moves at a much slower pace.

There is inevitable toing and froing over clauses and wordings, clarifications over what should and should not be included in negotiations, and of course the biggest issue of all – the financial compensation package. This explains the delays in getting to where we finally got to today. And it is understood all of this was playing up to the 11th hour prior to Perez eventually going public with the news of his departure.

The fine details of what was eventually agreed between Perez and Red Bull are something that will only be known to themselves, but it is quite notable that in the end the first confirmation about their relationship ending came from Perez himself.

This was very much presented as Perez’s own decision. The announcement was “A message from Checo” and it very quickly made reference to “an agreement to part ways” having been reached between driver and team. It’s that fine line between jumping yourself and being pushed: the end result is the same, but the starting point makes a world of difference once the lawyers get involved.

For Perez, the deal may leave him on F1’s sidelines for 2025 but he will at least take a decent pay-off with him while he ponders his next steps in racing.

And for Red Bull, there may have been an expense in sorting the agreement in the end, but it will hope that what it has had to pay out, and potential losses in sponsorship money that Perez brought, will be compensated by the team having a better shot at the constructors’ championship next year.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/the-10-f1-2024-moments-that-cost-perez-his-red-bull-drive/10683295/
DATE: 2024

’s Red Bull career haul now ends at five wins, three poles and 932 points. That he only added to the last of those three categories in the 2024 Formula 1 season is one of three key reasons why he’s finally been cast off as ’s team-mate.

The other two are firstly how it’s thanks to Perez bringing in just 35% of the world champion’s points total that Red Bull lost the 2024 constructors’ crown. And that things just didn’t have any hope of recovering.

Because Red Bull tried both carrot and stick – each supplied separately by the public support of team boss Christian Horner and the equally open slamming of company motorsport advisor Helmut Marko.

By his home race in Mexico, it’d become obvious from the private messages of Red Bull insiders that the heap of goodwill Perez had built in the way he’d defended on Verstappen’s behalf against  late in the 2021 campaign had finally been exhausted.

He’d survived the summer decision on keeping him and  in their respective places. Now both and are gone. And, for Perez, there’s a season-long trail of moments where he should’ve done better and that explain why he’s now been ditched.

Perez failed to pick up the victory in Australia after Verstappen suffered a reliability problem

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

Although  looked like the team to beat over a race stint in Melbourne, Red Bull started on pole and looked threatening with Verstappen – three races into the part of the season where the team remained as dominant as in 2023.

But the Dutchman’s brake fire there meant he retired early on, with  moving serenely on to win, with the only interest in the rest of the podium places coming from the battle between his Ferrari team-mate  and the  drivers.

Perez, with an RB20 that should’ve been a victory contender, was absent. This was after he’d impeded  early in a qualifying that should’ve netted third on the grid.

He railed and was  on his way to fifth. But this result highlighted how Perez should always be there to pick up the pieces when Verstappen is struck by misfortune for Red Bull. And had he started higher he might’ve avoided his race downforce loss.

A podium, but not the 1-2 Red Bull had hoped for in China

Photo by: Mark Sutton / Motorsport Images

Melbourne might’ve been a blip, given how Perez had backed Verstappen up in Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Japan. But on F1’s return to China, he let another such result slip away as Verstappen cruised to another win.

Having scrapped with Sainz and  in the sprint race Verstappen won, Perez was a hefty 0.3s off his team-mate in qualifying. Then, at the start of the Chinese GP, he let the Aston Martin get all the way around his outside and a front row start was blown.

Pushing too hard early in each of his subsequent stints undid him against , who’d started behind,  Given the McLaren was yet to get its season-transforming update in Miami, this was a poor result for an RB20 driver.

When the MCL38 was massively upgraded in Miami, Perez’s weekend started badly in that he spent the sprint battling Ricciardo’s  before he was behind both Ferraris in GP qualifying.

He then nearly wiped Verstappen out at the start of the race that kickstarted Norris’s season.

Costly crashes began to add to poor results in Monaco

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

Having scored a famous win in Monaco in 2022 – which let’s not forget enraged Verstappen given how his now former team-mate’s Q3 crash stopped him doing better than third – crashes blighted Perez’s next two visits to the principality.

In 2023, he crashed out in Q1. Then, this year, he was out in another shunt on the opening lap – having failed to progress from that qualifying opening segment on pace. The red-flag-causing shunt with the Haas drivers wasn’t completely his fault, but he had space to move into with  looming on the meandering rise to Massenet.

“A complete disaster,” he’d said after qualifying. But it summed up his weekend overall too.

A new contract put a spring in Perez's step in Canada, but results ultimately didn't follow

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

Red Bull’s most obvious attempt to lift Perez from a spiral he’d really been on since 2022 came when it announced he’d been

The thinking was that, supposedly secure in his position, his form would improve.

“The past few races have been tough, there is convergence on the grid, but we are confident in Checo and look forward to his return to proven form and performance, that we so often see,” Horner said before next time out in Canada, things were just as bad.

Perez again failed to make it out of Q1 – blaming a car issue Red Bull wouldn’t expand upon.He then crashed out solo in the race – choosing to drive back to the pits with his heavily damaged car to avoid the risk of a safety car appearance impacting Verstappen’s chances up front. In doing so he earned another grid penalty for Spain, plus a 1/10 in Motorsport.com’s driver ratings for the second weekend in a row.

After a so-so Spain – taking eighth from starting 11th when Verstappen won brilliantly in holding off Norris – Perez was awful again in Austria. On Red Bull’s home turf, he lost out to Nico Hulkenberg in the GP – being undercut twice with poor pace compared to the Haas driver, who he couldn’t keep behind in a fierce final lap scrap.

A dreadful British GP weekend saw rumours of a summer split with Red Bull grow

Photo by: Erik Junius

Next time out at Silverstone, both Red Bull cars had moments at Copse in the drying Q1. But where Verstappen held his wobble and only damaged his floor in the runoff, Perez span off on an outlap, got beached in the gravel and would start Red Bull’s other home race from the pitlane.

In the British GP, he took intermediates before the rain really fell hard and, needing an extra stop, ended up a shocking two laps down in 17th, while Verstappen rescued second.

Things did not improve for Perez in Hungary ahead of the summer break

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

It was a similar story for Perez in Hungary, where Red Bull unleashed the RB20’s first major upgrade – but only on Verstappen’s car.

He qualified 16th with another Q1 crash and raced to seventh – all under the pressure of Red Bull’s management considering  as the summer break kicked off.

At the time he was 141 behind, which would be a whopping 285 by the end of the season. These behind-the-scenes discussions were tied together with Red Bull’s simultaneous decision over whether to promote Ricciardo back to its main team or ditch him for , then still waiting in the wings.

But it was ultimately decided to keep the status quo for the initial post-summer races, as it was felt at the time Ricciardo had at least done enough for things to stay put. But Ricciardo’s stay of RB exit lasted just four more races, with Perez given six on top of that.

Starting from second, Perez was out of contention after just a single corner

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

Before Red Bull made its summer calls on its F1 driver stable, Perez gave it yet more disappointment at Spa on the eve of the summer break.

The fast, undulating track with its many high-speed corners is the perfect layout for its car package, with Verstappen duly blasting to top qualifying here for the fourth year in succession. But, in another very familiar way, he would drop back on the grid for taking replacement engine parts.

Perez was therefore left to take what should’ve been a nailed-on Red Bull win from second on the grid. But he was out of contention by the first corner, as Hamilton piled by to chase and overhaul inheriting polesitter Leclerc, with the  driver going on to win (eventually).

Perez carried on sliding backwards and finally came home seventh – three places adrift of Verstappen, who’d started nine places behind.

Baku was the one that got away, with a late crash with Sainz resulting in an unfortunate DNF

Photo by: Simon Galloway / Motorsport Images

As is so often the case due to the neutral steering balance he likes from the set-ups required to cope with so many 90-degrees, Perez shone on the streets of Baku. In 2024, this was the one weekend where Verstappen was nowhere, as the nadir of the RB20’s handling challenge bit hardest and his set-up gamble backfired.

Perez therefore led the line for Red Bull, although still only qualifying fourth and 0.4s off Leclerc’s pole. Yet in the race, he worked his way into becoming a victory threat – and might’ve gotten ahead of eventual winner  but for Norris’s efforts to delay the leading RB20 during the race’s pitstop phase while the second McLaren ran the contra strategy.

Leading Piastri after this stage might’ve meant Perez overhauling Leclerc and claiming what would’ve been a first win in 17 months and following on from F1’s previous visit to Azerbaijan back in early 2023 (now set to be his final F1 triumph in a career stretching back to 2011).

But he remained trapped behind the leaders. Then, when Leclerc’s tyres cried enough and the fight for second opened up with Piastri clear ahead, Perez failed to move into the acres of space to his left in a sudden battle with Sainz in the other Ferrari.

Contact was made –  Another costly repair followed for Red Bull and a much-needed victory for the embattled team was wasted.

Starting out of position, Perez soon ended up battling Lawson in what became a drawn out rivalry

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

Verstappen had finally got his team back to winning ways in the Austin sprint – after Perez had been unable to replicate his decent Baku form on another street setting in Singapore. In the main race in Texas, he scrapped with midfielders and badly lost time to the frontrunners, before heading to his home race in Mexico.

The pressure is always on Perez there, but, with the field so close these days he was at risk of something embarrassing: the Q1 exit that occurred. He blamed this on how he couldn’t “brake or stop the car and as soon as I attack the braking, I start sliding and locking up”.

In the race, he was penalised for lining up too far forwards in his grid box and had a bruising encounter with Lawson that left him with damage. Getting the middle finger from the New Zealander on his way to finishing lapped and last of the finishers was the final indignity.

Perez's Qatar weekend was embarrassing for all concerned

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

By this stage, Red Bull sources were sounding ever more exasperated. The team had tried to help Perez with the longstanding braking problem, but, seemingly, to no avail.

In Qatar, he was out in SQ1 and then bafflingly didn’t react to the lights changing from his latest pitlane start for being fitted with a different suspension specification as Red Bull chased a desperate solution to its handling ills even here, five races on from its design breakthrough with its Austin floor and sidepod developments.

This gaffe let ’s  nip ahead and Perez was pitted during the sprint to do more set-up experiments on Verstappen’s behalf, which were later deemed a failure. He at least made Q3 in GP qualifying, which his team-mate topped before his  row broke out.

In the Qatar race, Perez was had looked set to benefit when the safety car was called for the debris and punctures Hamilton and Sainz had suffered as he’d been running between them.

But he botched this chance by spinning off solo just as the neutralisation was about to end.

He burned his clutch out trying to get going again, which was to reoccur after he’d been punted around by ’s  at the season finale the following week in Abu Dhabi.

An underwhelming end, then, for such a stint in F1’s best team of the current era.

Perez's final act for Red Bull - a lap one exit in Abu Dhabi

Photo by: Lubomir Asenov / Motorsport Images

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/video/perez-officially-out-at-red-bull-who-will-be-verstappens-teammate-f1-qa/657657/?filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Formula+1+2024&filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4660&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Red+Bull+Racing&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4
DATE: 2024

It's official - Sergio Perez will no longer drive for Red Bull Racing in Formula 1. But who will be his replacement? Can Yuki Tsunoda jump from RB to Red Bull, or will Liam Lawson partner Max Verstappen in 2025 and beyond? In this week's Autosport F1 Q&A, Bryn Lucas, Kevin Turner and Alex Kalinauckas discuss the breaking news, Lando Norris vs Charles Leclerc's seasons, Rwanda's chances of hosting an F1 race, and more.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/least-helpful-f1-teammates-ever/10683176/
DATE: 2024

Finding the right #2 driver is as much art as science. Teams need someone talented enough to score podiums, and savvy enough to understand their role. Make a mistake, and your #1 driver can spend the season dragging dead weight, particularly in the fight for the constructor's title. Which brings us to Sergio Pérez (who ).

brought Pérez aboard for 2021 to complement then-wunderkind . Over that season and the next two, the Mexican driver largely held up his end of the bargain, delivering podiums and backing a dynastic run for Red Bull and Verstappen. Especially in 2022 and 2023, Sergio Pérez represented the ideal No. 2 driver — a constructor’s championship cheat code.

Where Pérez scored between 32 and 40 percent of Red Bull’s points each of his first three years with the team, he was an anchor in 2024, delivering a paltry 26.1 percent of the team’s 581 points. Red Bull slipped to third in the constructors’ standings despite Verstappen hoisting his fourth consecutive driver’s title. As Verstappen clinched his fourth world championship at the Las Vegas Grand Prix, Pérez notched a single point. The man who'd been a bear as a #2 driver had become an albatross.

It all made us wonder: Where did Pérez's woeful season stack up in the annals of bad campaigns by a top driver’s team-mate? So we crunched the numbers, looking at data from every Formula 1 season, to figure out out which team-mates had been the least helpful for the contending teams. Turns out, since 1958, 14 teams have finished in the top two of the constructor’s championship with one driver scoring 75 percent (or more) of the team's points.

Below are the most lopsided F1 driver tandems ever. The good news — for Checo, at least — is that there have been worse team-mates than his 2024 run. Just not by much.

Photo by: Sutton Images

Emerson Fittipaldi: 61 points (100%)David Walker and Reine Wisell: 0 points (0%)

Meet the gold standard for ineffective team-mates in Formula 1. Fittipaldi might have known he was in for a solo show when the FIA disqualified Walker from the year’s first race, the Argentine Grand Prix, for receiving outside assistance. He single-handedly dragged the team to the title when his team-mates had extremely trouble staying eligible for races, let alone finishing them with their cars intact.

In a season with only 12 races, Fittipaldi won five and claimed the constructors’ championship all by himself. Walker was the primary freeloader, never finishing better than ninth and retiring in each of his last four starts. Wisell replaced him in the midst of that run of ignominy and couldn’t score points for Lotus, either.

Jim Clark in his Lotus 25 Climax

Photo by: Motorsport Images

Jim Clark: 54 points (98.2%)Rest of team: 1 point (1.8%)

The 1963 season saw the first of Clark’s two driver’s championships, winning seven of 10 grands prix (while also taking seven poles). And for constructor’s championship purposes, he was the only driver that mattered, as the team turned into a carousel of #2 pilots: fellow Brits Trevor Taylor, Peter Arundell, and Mike Spence, as well as Mexican Pedro Rodríguez. Taylor scored exactly one point thanks to a sparkling sixth-place finish in Monaco to open the season. Of course, the FIA only counted a team’s top driver in a grand prix toward the constructor standings in 1963, so even Taylor’s single point wound up being irrelevant.

Ukyo Katayama, Michael Schumacher and Jos Verstappen in a press conference

Photo by: Ercole Colombo

Michael Schumacher: 92 points (89.3%)Jos Verstappen, JJ Lehto, and Johnny Herbert: 11 points (10.7%)

In lugging around a subpar team-mate this season at Red Bull, Max Verstappen is perhaps paying a debt taken on by his father 30 years ago. That season,  spent most of the year as the team’s No. 2 to a young Schumacher — though that wasn’t the original plan. JJ Lehto was meant to be Schumacher’s partner, but a preseason injury resulted in Verstappen taking the seat.

Things went well for : he won his first world driver’s championship, beating out  by a single point after both men retired from the season-ending Australian Grand Prix following a crash with each other. (Schumacher, who had everything to gain by crashing out with Hill, has often been accused of orchestrating the collision.)

It all went less well for Verstappen the Elder, and . The team finished 15 points behind  for second in the constructor’s title. Jos Verstappen wasn’t around to see it happen; Benetton replaced him with Johnny Herbert for the final two races in the hopes of making a final push. Verstappen lost his seat before the next season began.

Michael Andretti and Ayrton Senna

Photo by: Ercole Colombo

Ayrton Senna: 73 points (86.9%)Michael Andretti and Mika Häkkinen: 11 points (13.1%)

finished second in the world championship in this season, 26 points behind Alain Prost. McLaren also came in second to Prost’s Williams team, but the margin in that race was much bigger: 168 points for Williams, 84 for McLaren.  brought little to the table, finishing 11th in the championship, with as many retirements (seven) as points. McLaren swapped him out for  for the final three races, with the Finn sandwiching a P3 finish at the Japanese Grand Prix between two retirements. Andretti never drove again in Formula 1, leaving his lousy ‘93 performance opposite Senna to stand as the American’s only F1 record.

Damon Hill and Ayrton Senna

Photo by: Motorsport Images

Damon Hill: 91 points (77.1%)Rest of team: 27 points (22.9%)

This season, of course, wears an asterisk of tragic proportions.

Williams started the season with a dynamite duo: three-time champion Ayrton Senna and an ascendant  (who would win his first title two years later in 1996). Senna’s death in the season’s third race, at the San Marino Grand Prix at Imola, threw the world into mourning, and  into chaos.

Amidst the pall of Senna’s loss, Damon Hill found himself in a historic title battle with Michael Schumacher, losing out by only one point. Maybe more impressively, Williams secured an astonishing constructors’ title thanks almost entirely to Hill.  and Nigel Mansell took their turns filling Senna’s seat, and the two drivers cobbled together a combined 27 points, finishing eighth and ninth respectively in the championship. A bar-bet fact: Mansell, sitting on pole at the finale in Australia, won the race in which Hill and Schumacher crashed out. He called his victory that day “a great relief,” as he continued a stretch of winning at least one race in each year since 1985.

Jenson Button and Takuma Sato pose with BAR-Honda team members

Photo by: Motorsport Images

: 85 points (71.4%)Takuma Sato: 34 points (28.6%)

This duo has the honor of being the most lopsided on a top-two constructor in the 21st century. Button didn’t win a grand prix, but stood on nine podiums; Sato landed just one, a P3 in the United States Grand Prix at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. That was apparently a formative experience for the Japanese star, who later changed racing series and won the Indianapolis 500 in both 2017 and 2020.

Photo by: Michael Potts / Motorsport Images

Max Verstappen: 429 points (73.8%)Sergio Pérez: 152 points (26.2%)

Technically, Pérez's 2024 season doesn't count for our worst-team-mate rankings because Red Bull finished third (not second) in the constructor's championship, behind  and . But let's not let rules get in the way of recognizing his futility. Despite a torrid start to the season — four podiums in the first five races — Perez collapsed soon therafter, logging five DNFs (and no podiums) in the final 17 grand prix, including the last two races. The Mexican driver’s eighth-place finish in the drivers’ standings this year was the widest gap between a No. 2 driver and his title-winning team-mate since Jos Verstappen took 10th behind Schumacher in 1994.

But if Pérez’s brutal season, in which he managed only 26.2% of his team’s point, is technically inadmissible, his 2021 season with Red Bull can be entered into evidence. As Verstappen won the drivers’ title in Abu Dhabi and  retained the team crown, Pérez managed just 32.5 percent of Red Bull’s points. Oh, what Christian Horner would’ve given to get that much out of Pérez this year.

McLaren team-mates Alain Prost and Niki Lauda

Photo by: Sutton Images

Niki Lauda: 72 points (50.2%)Alain Prost: 71.5 points (49.8%)

Let’s end this list on a somewhat positive note.

In 1984, the world witnessed what may be the most even-handed effort by two Formula 1 team-mates ever, as  and Alain Prost won the constructor's title with only a half-point separating their totals.

That half-point, of course, made a difference in Prost’s season. Lauda took the driver’s title over Prost largely because of the Frenchman's own actions. During the Monaco Grand Prix, as rain poured down and a charging Ayrton Senna threatened to overtake the race-leading Prost, the Frenchman pressed for the race to be shortened. He got his wish, but only half points (4.5 for Prost, instead of nine) were awarded to the top six finishers. Had he finished the full race in second, Prost would have received six points.

Since 1984, a couple teams have come close to splitting constructor’s points while taking the title. In 1986, Williams tallied 70 points from Nigel Mansell and 69 from Nelson Piquet for the championship. And in 2016,  won with 385 from  and 380 from .

No team has ever finished in the top two of the constructor standings with a perfect 50/50 driver point split. It may not even be a worthwhile goal to have two viable #1 drivers (as McLaren may soon discover). But Red Bull will certainly be hoping for a more balanced duo than it could muster in 2024.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/video/why-ferraris-engine-is-the-perfect-choice-for-cadillac-f1-qa/657545/?filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Formula+1+2024&filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4660&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Red+Bull+Racing&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4
DATE: 2024

Bryn Lucas is back to host the latest edition of the Autosport Q+A show, where we answer your questions! If you want to take part in next week’s show, be sure to comment down below, or reach out to Autosport.com or our Instagram account! On this week’s show, Bryn is joined by Alex Kalinauckas and Kevin Turner and together they tackle whether Ferrari should have won the Constructors Championship, a range of Cadillac-themed questions on their management and potential drivers such as Colton Hertz, the journalists favourite moments of 2024, and ask whether Christian Horner is under pressure at Red Bull after keeping Sergio Perez during the Summer Break.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-qatar-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1123762/
DATE: 2024

After handing victory in the Formula 1 Qatar Grand Prix sprint race to  team-mate  on the final lap,  has another shot at glory in qualifying.

Having repaid Piastri for his own sacrificial gesture in the Brazilian GP sprint, Norris will aim to underline his position as the faster of the papaya drivers by emulating the pace that enabled him to pip  to top spot in sprint qualifying on Friday.

But with Russell keen to strike back at McLaren after being frustrated by Piastri's defence in the sprint, the Las Vegas winner cannot be ruled out of the conversation for the penultimate pole position of the year.

Qualifying gets under way in Losail at 18:00 GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/verstappen-questions-harsh-perez-treatment-he-is-not-an-idiot/10681075/
DATE: 2024

has conceded he sympathises with 's struggles this year and insisted his Red Bull team-mate is "not an idiot" in the face of "harsh" criticism.

Perez's position with the Milton Keynes-based outfit has been hanging by a thread for the majority of the season despite signing a new contract during the campaign, with a number of disastrous qualifying runs leaving his race opportunities in tatters.

The Mexican's failure to come close to matching his world champion team-mate left Red Bull behind new constructors' champions  and runner-up  in the standings, and while talks are set to take place now the season-ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix has passed, Perez was at least defiant in suggesting his contract for next year remained.

With suggestions that this isn't the case and  is instead being promoted from RB, with  making the step from F2 to partner , Perez would be left without an F1 seat.

Asked whether he was expecting a new team-mate for the new term, Verstappen replied: "I don’t know, this is up to the team.

"I always worked really well with Checo, he is a great guy honestly. It is very rare that you have a team-mate like him who has always been very good and just a nice guy too."

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, 1st position, Sergio Perez, Red Bull Racing, 3rd position, in Parc Ferme

Photo by: Zak Mauger / Motorsport Images

Verstappen defended Perez on numerous occasions in the infancy of his struggles with the RB20, with the Dutchman instead pointing to difficulties with the car - issues which would strike for both drivers after the summer break and leave the four-time champion frustrated himself.

Claiming Perez "100%" suffered with the car this year, Verstappen added "I do" have sympathy for the position he has found himself in.

"I work with him every weekend, week in, week out and I find people have been very harsh on him," he added.

"Of course, there are some weekends that maybe could have been better naturally, but sometimes people have been very harsh on him, because he's not an idiot.

"He's always been regarded as a great driver, and it's been tough, but it's been tough for everyone in the team because sometimes it was just very difficult to drive."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/video/road-tripping-with-f1s-liam-lawson/657360/?filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Formula+1+2024&filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4660&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=RB+Racing&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=5255
DATE: 2024

Motorsport's Emily Selleck grabbed shotgun as Liam Lawson and his girlfriend Hannah St. John drove to Las Vegas for the race. Along the way, he gets into his career arc so far, keeping the secret of getting his RB seat, the difficulty of jumping in mid-season, the status of his vlogging side hustle, and getting recognized at Disneyland. Liam also goes head-to-head with med-student Hannah on who knows more: Biology vs. F1.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/video/how-a-new-darker-track-surface-could-define-the-entire-brazil-gp-f1-media-day-reaction/656420/?filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Formula+1+2024&filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4660&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=RB+Racing&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=5255
DATE: 2024

F1's Brazillian Grand Prix is here, and with it comes a sprint weekend, a new track surface, the tension between many drivers, and more. With the new track surface bringing the extra heat, can the F1 teams, and their Pirelli tyres, cope with the additional sprint race laps? What about Max Verstappen and Lando Norris' title fight? Or Liam Lawson and Sergio Perez's on-track repercussions? Jon Noble and Filip Cleeren chat in Interlagos' lively paddock to find out all they can leading into the Brazil GP weekend.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/video/should-the-fia-punish-swearing-or-focus-on-bigger-issues-f1-singapore-gp-updates/655095/?filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Formula+1+2024&filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4660&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=RB+Racing&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=5255
DATE: 2024

Max Verstappen has now been punished by the FIA for swearing in the Thursday press conference, with some arguing that swearing has no place in F1, whereas some argue that in some instances, swearing is an expression of emotion and should be allowed. But is it that simple? Mark Mann-Bryans and Ben Hunt discuss this in the Singapore GP paddock, as well as FP1 and FP2 results, George Russell breaking his W15's nose off, McLaren and Ferrari looking strong, and more.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/video/why-singapore-could-be-ricciardos-last-chance-in-f1-singapore-gp-paddock-news/655075/?filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Formula+1+2024&filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4660&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=RB+Racing&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=5255
DATE: 2024

F1 returns to Marina Bay for the 2024 Singapore Grand Prix this weekend, and to kick it off, there are 3 main stories: swearing controversies, Kevin Magnussen's return, and the potential that Singapore could be the last race Daniel Ricciardo races for RB in F1, to make way for Liam Lawson to drive RB's car from the US GP onwards.

Should drivers be banned from swearing? Was Magnussen's week off really a penalty? And has Ricciardo done enough to keep his seat? Mark Mann-Bryans and Ben Hunt discuss everything you need to know going into the Singapore GP weekend.

0:00 Drivers Swearing in F1

3:32 Magnussen's Week Off

5:18 Ricciardo's Potential Last F1 Race

#f1 #singapore #ricciardo
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/video/mclaren-in-charge-f1-azerbaijan-gp-analysis/655048/?filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Formula+1+2024&filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4660&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=RB+Racing&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=5255
DATE: 2024

Oscar Piastri's epic dive bomb on Charles Leclerc, and subsequent defensive masterclass earned him the win at this year's Azerbaijan Grand Prix, cementing McLaren firmly at the top of the constructor's championship. Further back, however, in the closing stages of the Grand Prix, Sainz and Perez collided, causing the race to end under VSC. What will this victory for Piastri mean in terms of McLaren's team orders? Bryn Lucas, Filip Cleeren and Ben Hunt sit down to discuss the 2024 Azerbaijan Grand Prix
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/video/why-monza-was-ferraris-win-not-mclarens-loss-f1-italian-gp-analysis/654523/?filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Formula+1+2024&filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4660&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=RB+Racing&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=5255
DATE: 2024

F1's Italian Grand Prix may have seemed like a failure for McLaren, but arguably the explanation isn't as simple as that. Between tyre graining issues, pitstop strategies, team order possibilities and a superb race from Charles Leclerc, Oscar Piastri and Lando Norris have been hurt by their 2nd and 3rd place finishes - however, they should still see Monza as a solid performance. Bryn Lucas chats with Jake Boxall-Legge and Filip Cleeren to understand what really happened with Ferrari and McLaren at the 2024 Italian Grand Prix.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ricciardo-hit-the-wall-twice-in-awesome-miami-f1-sprint-qualifying/10606547/
DATE: 2024

On Friday, Ricciardo provided the latest indication he is starting to turn the corner after a tough 2024 season start.

Ricciardo's more promising pace in China was left unrewarded after a clash with Lance Stroll, but in Miami sprint qualifying the Australian took a surprising fourth starting place for Saturday morning's 19-lap contest.

He finished four tenths off polesitter Max Verstappen in the Red Bull, revealing he made contact with the wall on his SQ2 and SQ3 laps.

"I feel really good about it," Ricciardo told F1.com. "I'm happy with the second row, it's awesome. On the first lap of SQ1 I made a mistake, so we were putting ourselves under a bit of pressure, but we built up from there.

"Max was surprised to be P1 with his lap and I was surprised to be P4 with mine. I expected more from the soft, but it didn't give much more than the medium.

"We were expecting everyone to go a lot quicker and they didn't. I touched the wall both laps as well, so I told the team I was definitely trying to get everything out of it.

"I don't know if that made me quicker or not, but we were going for it and I had some good confidence in the car."

Daniel Ricciardo, RB F1 Team VCARB 01

Photo by: Alexander Trienitz

Ricciardo is still chasing his first points of the campaign and hopes he can convert his fourth starting place into a solid haul, with the top eight earning points in the sprint.

"I'd love to be more than eighth for sure, I'd love to get a few points from it," he said.

"We'll see what happens. I experienced it in Mexico, starting at the front is just a lot nicer than starting in 12th or 13th.

"[Compared to] being involved in a bit of chaos on Lap 1, staying a bit cleaner at the front is like a breath of fresh air."

Team-mate Yuki Tsunoda was eliminated in 15th place in SQ2 after struggling to put a clean enough lap together.

"The pace was good in SQ1, so the car was there," Tsunoda said.

"We didn't maximise it and I probably didn't put it all together either. I think doing two push laps would have been better for us, that's the main issue."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/rb-plans-miami-upgrade-to-keep-surfing-on-the-top-of-midfield-fight/10603585/
DATE: 2024

The Faenza-based squad has found itself locked in an intense fight with Haas for supremacy of the five-squad chasing pack that is behind F1's top teams of Red Bull, Ferrari, McLaren, Mercedes and Aston Martin.

The current competitiveness of the F1 grid means that there are scant few points on offer for the bottom five teams, meaning Haas and RB have to pull out all the stops to capitalise on any opportunities that come their way.

RB currently leads that private battle from Haas, having scored seven points so far this year to its rival's five, but a double DNF in China proved costly in not allowing it to stretch its advantage.

With so little performance difference between teams, any gains are critical, which is why RB has elected to bring some developments to Miami despite it being a sprint event.

Speaking to Motorsport.com about the midfield battle, team boss Laurent Mekies said: "We'll have an update in Miami to help us try to keep surfing on the top of that very edge.

"There is nothing guaranteed in this group. I'm sure our competitors will bring updates as well and only if you nail the weekend will you get to that P10."

Daniel Ricciardo, RB F1 Team VCARB 01, Yuki Tsunoda, RB F1 Team VCARB 01

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

RB has appeared to have the pace edge over Haas at times this season, but its rival has managed to bring home a decent stack of points.

Mekies said the margins between the two teams were so small, though, that he had no confidence to state that his squad was in control of the fight.

"We have never been confident that we have the quickest car of the five [teams at the back]," said Mekies.

"We got it there by half a tenth in Australia, half a tenth in Japan and we missed it by a 10th and a half in China. In the race, we were probably equal, or if not half a tenth ahead. So we have never had any confidence. It's a battle every time.

"But it's a fantastic exercise for everyone. It's superb training for the team to execute sharp weekends, and you need a strong race from every perspective

"It's only by doing that you will get a point. As soon as one of these elements, be it tyre management, strategy, or anything, falls off the cliff, you will give up that point."

Watch: Adrian Newey Set to Leave Red Bull

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/max-verstappen-claims-he-didnt-lose-2025-f1-title-in-spain-but-should-he-be-more-self-critical/10783457/
DATE: 2025

Looking at the maths of ’s 2025 Formula 1 season, from a certain point of view, is damning.

On the one hand, he achieved a remarkable recovery, from 104 points down on championship leader  with nine grands prix remaining to just two points away from newly crowned world champion  at the end of the season.

On the other hand, Verstappen lost at least nine points in the Spanish Grand Prix when, after a Turn 1 clash with , the Dutchman was incensed to be asked by race engineer Gianpiero Lambiase to let the  through after he cut Turn 2.

Verstappen proceeded to slow down but immediately drove into Russell at Turn 5, earning a 10-second penalty that dropped him from fifth to 10th. That’s a nine-point loss.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, George Russell, Mercedes

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images via Getty Images

Straight after the Barcelona race, the Red Bull driver had been dismissive, shutting down questions on the incident. “Does it matter?” he retorted. He was more open about it last month,  on Dutch TV channel Viaplay.

But given the potential decisive impact on the title race, he was always going to be interrogated about it in the Abu Dhabi post-race press conference – and The Guardian’s Giles Richards asked the bold question.

“Max, you lost out to Lando by just two points,” Richards said. “What do you think now about the incident with George Russell in Spain? Do you regret that looking back in hindsight?”

“You forget all the other stuff that happened in my season,” Verstappen replied, getting more and more irritated as he went on. “The only thing you mention is Barcelona. I knew that would come. You’re giving me a stupid grin now. I don’t know. Yeah, it’s part of racing at the end. You live and learn. The championship is one of 24 rounds. I’ve also had a lot of early Christmas presents given to me in the second half, so you can also question that.”

Lando Norris, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Andrej Isakovic / AFP via Getty Images

There is no question that  wasted a lot of points this season, and most importantly, nobody can say that particular incident cost Verstappen the title. The butterfly effect means, if Red Bull’s racer hadn’t driven into Russell, the remainder of the season would almost certainly have panned out differently – and nobody can say how.

But Verstappen’s attitude – which partly stems from how he behaves with British media relative to Dutch journalists – greatly contrasts with that of the driver he lost the world title to.

Lando Norris has always been self-critical – arguably to an extreme which, at times, amounts to self-flagellation. He’s not the only one with this philosophy, which  has always indulged in too.

Even after winning the title, Norris was very much aware his season had been far from perfect.

“If I look back on it, my first half of the season – not the most impressive,” the Briton commented. “Certainly, times I made some mistakes, made some bad judgments. I made my errors, as I'm sure every driver would admit to.”

Would Verstappen, though? One can only admire his self-confidence. That’s part of his ruthlessness. But will he actually learn from the unnecessary mistake he made at Barcelona? He vowed to in Dutch, he was defiant in English. Only time will tell.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/whats-really-behind-helmut-markos-red-bull-exit-and-what-does-it-mean-for-max-verstappen/10783719/
DATE: 2025

It was known, in the Yas Marina paddock, that the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix could be Helmut Marko’s final Formula 1 race as Red Bull’s motorsport advisor.

A final decision was made on Monday in Abu Dhabi, as Marko met with Red Bull's senior management, including Oliver Mintzlaff. The official announcement followed on Tuesday, bringing an end to an era that lasted more than 20 years.

According to Red Bull’s official explanation, Marko is retiring – something entirely normal at the age of 82 – and Mintzlaff expressed his regret in the press release. In reality, however, several factors contributed to this decision.

To start with, Red Bull’s Austrian parent company is taking more control over its F1 operations, a shift that began during the internal power struggles surrounding Christian Horner. The goal is to bring stability to both Red Bull teams and streamline the organisation. This trend is visible elsewhere too: Red Bull has appointed a new head of PR, transferred from the Austrian headquarters, replacing Paul Smith, who had to leave simultaneously with Horner.

Recent events seem to have added to the situation, some of them related to driver decisions. As head of Red Bull’s junior programme, Marko has always held a crucial – often decisive – voice in such matters. This was again evident in the recent cases of Arvid Lindblad and Alex Dunne. Pushing for Lindblad’s F1 promotion raised fewer concerns, being a Red Bull product – even though some noise surfaced about the process and communication – but Dunne’s case seemed a bit more problematic.

The Irishman terminated his deal with  after deciding he wasn’t convinced by his long-term prospects in Woking and felt he lacked a clear path toward an F1 seat. Marko was quick to tell media, including Motorsport, that Dunne would be a good fit for Red Bull, and backed that up with plans to sign him. Red Bull management, however, was reportedly unaware and also far less convinced than Marko was.

This entire episode is understandable: Marko had, for years, a powerful mandate when it came to driver matters. It is natural he continued operating that way, especially given the success it brought, but the organisation around him has changed. In that light, Marko’s remark on Sunday night that he needed to “feel comfortable” to continue was telling. In that new reality, mutual alignment no longer seemed as perfect as before, making a moment like this to some extent inevitable.

Besides that, Marko has also always been known as someone who speaks his mind. In a Formula 1 world increasingly controlled by PR, he remained a more than welcome exception – a man of the old guard, much like the late Niki Lauda. Marko was always approachable in the paddock and never sugarcoated his words. Unlike the team’s other leaders, he was never accompanied by a PR person, meaning Red Bull often only found out about what he’d said once it had already been published.

This was refreshing for the media and at least some F1 fans, but not everyone within Red Bull appreciated it. A recent example came up in Qatar, where Marko suggested that  “waved past” .  stressed in Abu Dhabi that, regardless of what Marko said, there was no excuse to abuse someone online; still, Red Bull felt the need to issue an official apology. As the organisation seeks greater consistency, PR alignment makes sense.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, Helmut Marko, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

The obvious question is how all this affects Verstappen’s future at Red Bull. Marko accelerated the Dutchman’s path into Formula 1 and has therefore played a crucial role in his career. While Toto Wolff and  initially proposed a year in GP2 for 2015, Marko pushed through and gave Verstappen an immediate Toro Rosso seat.

Loyalty has long been mutual since then. Verstappen has repeatedly defended Marko publicly, most notably during the 2024 Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, when Marko’s position was threatened during the power struggles with Horner. “If Helmut has to go, then I will leave as well,” he said.

This may suggest that Marko’s departure could impact Verstappen’s future directly, but insiders emphasise that reality is a bit more nuanced. Both the Austrian and Thai part-owners have recently reaffirmed their full commitment to Verstappen – unsurprising given his immense sporting value to the brand.

Verstappen said on Sunday that he was happy with the atmosphere within the team. He even added that he felt better in Abu Dhabi this year than he did 12 months ago, despite having been world champion back then and missing out now. He sensed things were going wrong within Red Bull at the end of 2024, so stability led by Laurent Mekies and Mintzlaff is something the organisation wants to prioritise – although whether that will eventually be successful is unknown.

For Verstappen, everything still hinges on two factors: on-track performance in 2026, and how he feels about F1’s new regulations. If the team’s performance falls short, he will look elsewhere. And if he dislikes the new era entirely, he has repeated in recent weeks that he could even walk away from Formula 1 altogether.

Everything depends on the sporting picture, as manager Raymond Vermeulen recently underlined. He has described 2026 as an important year for Verstappen’s long-term future. It’s relevant that the much-discussed “Marko clause” was neutralised from Red Bull’s perspective last year through a side letter. Like in any F1 contract, performance clauses remain – meaning all depends on Red Bull’s competitiveness under the new rule set, including its in-house power unit in collaboration with Ford.

It remains unclear how Red Bull plans to restructure the organisation without Marko and who will take over the young driver programme. It is possible that more responsibilities will be redistributed over the winter, as the team seeks a sustainable leadership model for the long term.

For now, Marko leaves behind an impressive legacy: eight drivers’ titles, six constructors’ titles, and 130 race victories during his Red Bull tenure – with  and Verstappen as the brightest products of the Red Bull talent pool.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/red-bull-yuki-tsunoda-team-radio-calls-bordering-on-menacing-says-martin-brundle/10783747/
DATE: 2025

Former Formula 1 driver and Sky Sports analyst  has argued that Red Bull's team radio instructions to  during the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix were "bordering on menacing".

The Milton Keynes outfit knew that the moment would come in the season-ending race at Yas Marina Circuit when championship leader  would need to pass Tsunoda after a pitstop. With Tsunoda's team-mate  fighting Norris for the championship title, the team told the Japanese driver "you know what to do" over the team radio as the  approached his rear.

While Red Bull had likely hoped that Tsunoda would have held Norris up for at least a few turns, the McLaren driver overtook him fairly quickly but was forced off the track in the process.

The stewards launched two investigations, one for Tsunoda potentially forcing Norris off the track and another for Norris possibly leaving the track and gaining an advantage. For Norris, the stewards deemed no further action was required, and Tsunoda was handed a five-second penalty for forcing the Briton off the track.

"I really don't mind a bit of strategic team play, everybody has two cars to use at their competitive best, but the 'you know what to do' radio calls were bordering on menacing, along with him being told the gap from Norris to Leclerc of 1.4 seconds," Brundle wrote in his .

"Yuki should have backed Lando up from the tight turns 12 through to Turn Five on the next lap, that would have been relatively easy and very effective. Instead, he chose to weave down the back straight like a drunken sailor while breaching the regulations, and eventually forcing Norris to pass on a filthy part of the track, which became actually, off the track."

Yuki Tsunoda, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Jayce Illman / Getty Images

Brundle agreed with the stewards' decision.

"Tsunoda rightly got a five-second penalty for that clear breach, but what of Norris' pass off-track and maintaining an advantage? He couldn't hand the place back because Leclerc had now passed Tsunoda too. Fortunately for Norris, the stewards made a rational decision," he added.

Tsunoda parted ways with Red Bull at the end of the season and is set to be replaced by  for 2026.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/red-bull-junior-team-marko-legacy/10684260/
DATE: 2025

Sebastian Vettel, BMW Sauber Third Driver

Photo by: Sutton Images

Race winner Sebastian Vettel, Toro Rosso

Photo by: Sutton Images

Daniel Ricciardo, Red Bull Racing RB10

Photo by: Daniel Kalisz

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, Liam Lawson, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

Nyck de Vries, AlphaTauri AT04

Photo by: Erik Junius

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/helmut-marko-leaving-red-bull-f1-team/10783634/
DATE: 2025

Helmut Marko is leaving Red Bull, whose academy he has run for 25 years, following the conclusion of the 2025 Formula 1 season.

The 82-year-old Austrian’s future at Red Bull was rumoured to be questioned in the Abu Dhabi paddock, despite his ongoing contract for 2026. Talks took place at Yas Marina Circuit on Monday between motorsport advisor Marko and Red Bull’s top management, including sporting CEO Oliver Mintzlaff.

“I have been involved in motorsport for six decades now, and the past 20-plus years at Red Bull have been an extraordinary and extremely successful journey,” Marko said in a Red Bull press release. “It has been a wonderful time that I have been able to help shape and share with so many talented people. Everything we have built and achieved together fills me with pride.

“Narrowly missing out on the world championship this season has moved me deeply and made it clear to me that now is the right moment for me personally to end this very long, intense, and successful chapter.

“I wish the entire team continued success and am convinced that they will be fighting for both world championship titles again next year.”

Mintzlaff added: “Helmut approached me with the wish to end his role as motorsport advisor at the end of the year. I deeply regret his decision, as he has been an influential figure for more than two decades, and his departure marks the end of an extraordinary era.”

Dr Helmut Marko, Red Bull Motorsport Consultant, Sebastian Vettel, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Patrik Lundin / Motorsport Images

The German praised Marko’s “passion”, “courage to make clear decisions” and “ability to spot potential”.

“After a long and intensive conversation, I knew that I had to respect his wishes, as I gained the impression that the timing felt right for him to take this step,” Mintzlaff continued. “Even though his departure will leave a significant gap, our respect for his decision and our gratitude for everything he has done for Red Bull Racing outweigh it.”

A former F1 driver and Le Mans 24 Hours winner, before sustaining a career-ending eye injury in the 1972 French Grand Prix, Marko moved on to management when he founded the RSM Marko team that competed in the DTM, German Formula 3 and F3000.

The outfit was renamed Red Bull Junior Team in 1999 before becoming the brand’s actual driver development programme, which produced no fewer than 18 F1 racers under Marko’s watch – including four-time world champions  and , though the latter was a late addition to the academy before his F1 debut.

“Thank you, Helmut,” Verstappen posted on social media. “We’ve achieved everything we ever dreamed of together. I’m forever grateful for your belief in me.”

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Since 2005, Marko has also acted as an advisor to the brand’s F1 activities, including the  team in Milton Keynes and the Faenza-based  outfit, which was initially christened Toro Rosso.

As Marko worked alongside former team principal Christian Horner, the main squad won eight drivers’ titles and six constructors’ crowns.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/helmut-marko-set-to-leave-red-bull-early-ahead-of-2026-f1-season/10783572/
DATE: 2025

Helmut Marko is set for retirement as Red Bull’s motorsport advisor in Formula 1, despite an initial contract for 2026.

Immediately after the title decider at the Yas Marina Circuit, uncertainty over Helmut Marko’s future at Red Bull began to trickle through the paddock. When asked, the Austrian stated that discussions would take place later in the week. Whereas the 82-year-old had previously pointed to his ongoing contract, he did not do so this time.

“It’s a complex [set] of different things,” he said. When asked what his own preference would be, Marko replied: “I have to sleep over it, and then we’ll see.”

The discussions Marko referred to on Sunday night took place on Monday in Abu Dhabi with Red Bull’s top management – including sporting CEO Oliver Mintzlaff. The outcome is that Marko is set for retirement at the end of this calendar year as Red Bull’s motorsport advisor, noting that his influence in practice went beyond what that job title suggested.

Marko’s contract had initially been extended for two more years and covered the 2026 season as well, but that term will not be completed.

Team principal Laurent Mekies already hinted on Sunday night that changes were looming. Asked about Marko’s comments, the French team boss did little to quell the rumours.

“Helmut has been incredible in how supportive he has been in helping us to turn around things this year. Obviously him and the top management had quite a few difficult decisions to make in the year, and of course we always have. But Formula 1 is not a static environment, you always adjust your organisations, and it applies to technical, it applies to sporting.”

Helmut Marko, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Luca Martini / SOPA Images / LightRocket via Getty Images

Mekies subtly indicated that Red Bull was looking at ways to make its leadership structure future-proof.

“It's completely normal that we review how we can improve the way we operate all the time. So I'm not saying that specifically for Helmut, but I'm saying that in general we are in an environment where we always challenge each other and look for the next steps, no matter how small it is in trying to work together. But I can only thank Helmut for the role he has played in making what looked like a difficult situation at the mid-season making work with the support,” said Mekies, who took over from Christian Horner this past summer.

Suggestions in the paddock are that the Austrian parent company might take a firmer grip. One option could be to involve Mintzlaff and his team more closely in the running of Red Bull's F1 operations. A new head of PR has also been put forward from the Austrian headquarters, after Paul Smith – who previously held that position – had to leave the team at the same time as Horner.

With Marko’s upcoming retirement, an era spanning 21 years will come to an end. The former Le Mans 24 Hours winner from Graz was put forward as Dietrich Mateschitz’s right-hand man to help build  after the team was acquired from Jaguar ahead of the 2005 season. Marko took charge of the junior programme that produced, among others,  and .

Whereas  initially wanted to place Verstappen in GP2 for a year, Marko immediately offered the Dutchman an F1 seat at sister team Toro Rosso for 2015. The loyalty between the two has long been mutual since then. When Marko’s position came under pressure around the 2024 Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, amid the Horner power struggles, Verstappen firmly came to his defence. As of 31 December 2025, however, that cooperation seems to formally come to an end.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sergio-perez-takes-cheeky-jab-at-red-bull-with-avengers-meme-response/10783505/
DATE: 2025

took a sly jab at Red Bull on social media after a joke X account shared an Avengers meme hinting that the Mexican driver may not have been treated fairly at the Milton Keynes outfit.

The former Red Bull driver shared the post with a simple caption: "Perhaps".

Perez drove for Red Bull from 2021 until 2024, when he was replaced by rookie  for 2025. While Perez sometimes struggled to extract the same performance out of the car as his team-mate at the time, , he often played a strong supporting role for the four-time champion.

During the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, Verstappen's 2025 team-mate, , was defending against the Dutchman's championship rival, . But the Briton made the pass quickly and went on to secure the title with a third-place finish, which seemed to spur on the joke post from the F1 Troll account.

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

"He takes his moment to defend himself," one fan commented on the exchange on Reddit, while another responded: "He is the minister of defence."

"Perez's struggles were blown out of proportion because of narratives and because Max was his team-mate. The only question is whether RB is willing to change their car development culture in 2026 as it was mostly successful from having Max and once he's gone, they're gonna go backwards," another fan wrote.

Someone else argued: "People [are] quick to forget that Checo was actually pretty good in the 2nd seat until RBR royally fumbled the car starting midway through 2023. Max covered up a lot of warts in that car through the beginning of 2024."

Perez is set to return to the F1 grid in 2026 with Cadillac alongside former  driver .

"I'm all for the Checo revenge tour next year," someone posted, while another added: "Checo and Bottas will make a great duo next year. Can't wait for all the s***housery."

Another added: "I would love for Sergio and Valtteri to be powerhouses next year and be like... Seee... see how good we are???!!!!!!!!"

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/who-is-driving-at-the-2025-f1-abu-dhabi-post-season-test/10783370/
DATE: 2025

The 2025 Formula 1 competitive season may be over, but track activity is not: all 20 cars will be in action in  on Tuesday.

Each team will have one mule car driven by one or both race drivers, featuring Pirelli’s new range of rubber for the 2026 season, with slightly smaller and narrower tyres.

Even the tyres’ construction will be significantly different due to F1’s new technical regulations. When Pirelli asked all F1 teams to submit their predicted downforce levels for the end of 2026, there was much disparity between their simulations.

“It was more difficult for teams to estimate the performance of their 2026 cars at the end of the season,” Pirelli’s Mario Isola explained. “But we needed those simulations because we needed to design a product that is lasting for one year. If they just give us an idea of the car performance at the start of the season, and if we don't know what the rate of development will be, then it's difficult for us.”

Pirelli has therefore developed a broad spectrum of compounds, in case the real-world downforce levels turn out to be higher or lower than predicted by the teams.

The mule cars are 2025-spec machinery that has been modified to drop down closer to next year’s much lower downforce levels, though it cannot be fully accurate, partly because the 2026 cars will feature active aerodynamics.

“We have discussed some limitations with the teams, based on those first tests,” Isola added. “For example, we decided to avoid overloading the tyres on the straights. We were testing with a speed limit at 290km/h or 300km/h, because clearly they will have a lot less downforce on the straights next year. So we agreed on some methodologies for testing with the teams. Thanks to these methodologies it was possible to have feedback from the mule cars that was a little bit more coherent, more close.”

Valtteri Bottas, Mercedes, Mexico Pirelli Test

The test won’t change the 2026 compounds in any case, as the tyres have already been homologated for next season; it will simply help Pirelli choose the compounds for next year.

The Italian manufacturer has brought all compounds to Yas Marina Circuit except for the hardest dry-weather tyre, the C1, and the full-wet.

Meanwhile, the other 10 cars will be driven by rookies as part of the traditional end-of-season young drivers’ test. Only competitors with two grand prix starts or fewer are allowed to take part.

A number of 2025 race drivers will be skipping Tuesday's test.

This includes outgoing Red Bull racer  as well as his team-mate  and Mercedes' , with those teams giving all the track time to youngsters  and  respectively. Verstappen said he was “very happy” to miss out.

will field only , with  missing out.

will be the only test driver handling a mule car, with neither  nor  in action for Aston Martin – which is no surprise as far as the Spanish veteran is concerned, as he was looking forward to not driving the AMR25 any longer.

Ryo Hirakawa, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Many teams will field the same rookie as they did in Free Practice 1.

F2 frontrunners Dino Beganovic, Luke Browning and Jak Crawford will drive for the ,  and Aston Martin squads they are linked to.

Another F2 driver will be in action with his parent outfit,  at Alpine; the Enstone-based outfit will again loan out  to .

Now racing in IMSA with Cadillac,  reserve driver  will drive the Silver Arrow, while Toyota WEC driver and Haas reserve driver  will drive the VF-25.

Red Bull will entrust its protege  with the RB21 after the Japanese racer won the Super Formula championship. 2025 IndyCar runner-up and long-time  driver  will handle the title-winning F1 car.

Most importantly,  will gain important experience ahead of his graduation to Formula 1 with  in 2026.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/red-bull-explains-why-verstappen-didnt-pit-straight-after-piastri-in-abu-dhabi-gp/10783333/
DATE: 2025

Laurent Mekies has applauded ’s strategy for Formula 1’s title-deciding Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, which left his Red Bull team with a tough decision to make for .

After qualifying third,  was given hard tyres for the opening stint of the race, unlike Verstappen’s and ’ mediums. This meant Piastri stayed out longer, and a potential well-timed safety car intervention could even have helped him to victory.

Most strategies recommended by Pirelli involved a first stint on mediums, and Red Bull admittedly was surprised that McLaren willingly risked Piastri losing ground at the start on the hard compound.

“It was quite clever from their side,” team boss Mekies said. “It gave them a lot of options and ultimately gave us two scenarios to battle for the win. So yeah, we were not expecting it.”

Laurent Mekies, Red Bull Racing Team Team Principal

Photo by: Erik Junius

Piastri even  for second on the opening lap, before his very long opening stint prevented Verstappen from engaging in backing-up tactics to jeopardise Norris’ race.

Had Piastri won, Verstappen would have lost the title regardless of what happened to Norris, so he couldn’t afford to slow down while the Australian was in the lead.

Verstappen’s only opportunity to emulate ’s 2016 attempt to bunch up the pack came after right Piastri pitted. However, changing the Red Bull’s tyres on the next lap would have carried a risk of losing the lead to the Australian if the pitstop was short of perfect.

In the end, Red Bull believed it had more to lose by pitting and bunching up the field than maintaining Verstappen’s lead and hoping Norris might somehow lose another position.

Asked about a potential pitstop, Mekies said: “It was possible to do it. We didn't feel it was the right option for us.

“I mean, we would have given up quite a large advantage by doing so. And we didn't think that playing tactics would give us an edge today for the situations we were in. So we chose to stay out to maximise the advantage we had and to concentrate on winning the race.

“As we said, you know, we can't control what's behind us. So we did discuss that option, but we stick to our plan.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/video/f1-update-norris-resists-verstappens-pressure-for-f1-world-title-changes-coming-up-at-red-bull/665646/?filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Formula+1+2025&filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4855&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Red+Bull+Racing&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4
DATE: 2025

Lando Norris has crowned himself the 2025 Formula 1 world champion. The McLaren driver managed to withstand all pressure during the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix and was visibly emotional after clinching the title. Norris explained in the champion’s press conference how important the lessons from the early part of this season have been, and what role the mental aspects have played in that process. Max Verstappen, for his part, still completed a memorable comeback and said that he feels better in Abu Dhabi now than he did twelve months ago. According to him, that is partly because the atmosphere within the team is better than it was a year ago and because Red Bull managed to turn the year around. That said, it does not automatically mean that everything at Red Bull will remain exactly the same for next year. Ronald Vording discusses it all in a new F1 Update, including the background to Helmut Marko’s hint in the paddock and the emotion shown by Gianpiero Lambiase. The episode concludes with attention for Oscar Piastri and Ferrari’s disappointing season.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/max-verstappens-warm-reaction-to-kimi-antonelli-apology-is-lifeline-after-qatar-abuse-continues/10783261/
DATE: 2025

A moment between  and  after the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix will hopefully bring to an end the online abuse the  rookie has been receiving since his mistake during the Qatar Grand Prix.

In a video shared by the Mercedes F1 social media team, the young driver can be seen approaching the four-time champion following the title-deciding race. The two shake hands as Antonelli apologises for the mistake he made in last weekend's race once again - a mistake that let now-Formula 1 champion  win by two points.

Verstappen listens with a smile on his face before shrugging off the episode with a smile as the two shake hands again. There is clearly no tension between the drivers.

The drama began at Losail, when Antonelli was chasing  for the final podium position of the Qatar Grand Prix. After several laps in the dirty air of the , he ran out of grip on the penultimate lap and went wide, letting Norris sweep through and capture fourth place and two extra points in his championship fight with the Dutchman.

"After so many laps in dirty air, I'm pushing so hard, the mistake arrived, because I obviously every lap I was pushing a bit more and more to get closer and I arrived to the point where the tyre gave up. At that moment I did a mistake and Lando passed me," he said. "Then after the race, to receive those kind of comments, definitely it hurt."

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes, Toto Wolff, Mercedes

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

This error drew criticism from Red Bull as the team briefly believed it to be a purposeful move to allow Norris through, but these comments were quickly apologised for. Despite this, the abuse from fans of the championship was rife on social media.

Mercedes revealed that more than 1100 "severe or suspect" comments - several of them death threats - were flagged across Antonelli's social media accounts. And while Red Bull issued a formal statement confirming its accusations were incorrect, as well as comments mirroring this from across the paddock, the abuse continued into this weekend.

Following the Abu Dhabi race, the Italian was forced to turn comments off once again due to further abuse.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
