======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sauber-chairman-opens-up-on-disagreements-that-triggered-resignation/6832021/
DATE: 2021

Picci has been an important figure at Sauber over recent years, having played a key role in saving the team in 2016 when it was sold to investors Longbow Finance.

He stayed on board as chairman of Sauber holdings to work closely with the Islero Investments consortium of entrepreneurs that were headed by Finn Rausing, as it rebranded under the  moniker.

But ahead of the Mexican GP, Picci surprised the squad when he announced that he would be stepping down.

Speaking for the first time about the decision, which has not been widely publicised, Picci says that, while he maintains faith in the team’s owners, he did not see eye-to-eye with Vasseur.

"I do not want to be associated with the management of Fred Vasseur in the future,” he told the .

While Picci declined to elaborate on the specific issues that divided them, he did explain that the choice of drivers for the future was central to what happened.

Sauber recently signed F2 front runner Guanyu Zhou to be the teammate to  in 2022, with the Chinese driver opening up many commercial opportunities to the team.

While Picci has nothing against Zhou, the team’s 2022 choice does mark a departure from the previous close alliance that the team had with  as part of its Alfa Romeo association, and had led to the presence of  for the past three years.

"The way in which the drivers were chosen was one of the points that broke the table between me and the current management,” explained Picci.

He added: “I am sorry that Antonio is no longer here, and I am happy that Zhou will arrive. I have known the Chinese youngster and also his family ever since we wanted to take him to the Sauber Driver Academy, as well as [evaluate] the commercial opportunities that he can open up."

Antonio Giovinazzi, Alfa Romeo Racing

Photo by: Steven Tee /

But while unhappy about the driver situation, Picci says he maintains complete faith in Sauber’s owners, who recently reiterated their commitment to the team in the wake of talks with Michael Andretti about a buy-in.

Speaking about why the owners pondered a sale, Picci said: “What happened at the Belgian GP is still an open wound.

“Having had a three-lap non-race behind the safety car allowed  to earn points that took away almost any chance of regaining their position in the constructors' championship. Spa was an important watershed for us: it was one of the main reasons why we decided to give up F1 and to sell.”

The Andretti talks eventually collapsed because Sauber’s owners did not want to relinquish full control of the team, and Picci has faith that Rausing is doing the right thing for the future.

"He is free to make choices, he represents the shareholders and is a reliable person who puts all his passion and energy into it,” he said.

“I was placed in the minority and I drew my conclusions. Finn remains as trustworthy to me as the other people who represent the company. Without hesitation, I sincerely wish the best possible for the whole team.

“I am calm about the future of the team because the owners of the team are enthusiastic, and very passionate people, whose number one priority is the protection of the staff who make up the team.

“My resignation, therefore, must in no way become a cause for concern for the Sauber staff. Of this I am sure.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/piastri-criticism-against-alfa-romeo-f1-signing-zhou-is-pretty-unfair/6812585/
DATE: 2021

Formula 2 championship leader Piastri had been linked with a possible move to  for next season, but missed out on the driver to Zhou, who was announced as  teammate for 2022 last week.

Zhou is known to be bringing financial backing to Alfa Romeo, with outgoing driver  taking to social media to say that F1 could be "ruthless" when "money rules".

Asked by Motorsport.com for his thoughts on Zhou's move during a select media session in Qatar, Piastri defended the Chinese driver from the criticism he had received.

"Obviously he's copped quite a bit of negativity on social media and stuff, and I think most of it is pretty unfair, to be honest," Piastri said.

"OK, we all know he's bringing some financial backing behind him, but he's not doing poorly.

"He's second in the championship, he's got the same amount of wins as me, he led the championship for the first part of the year. He's certainly not coming in with no results at all.

"I think it'll be tough for him against Valtteri. I think Valtteri will be a very strong teammate.

"But I'm excited to see how he goes and I think he'll do a pretty good job."

Oscar Piastri, Reserve Driver Alpine F1

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

Piastri currently sits 36 points clear of Zhou in the F2 standings with two rounds remaining in Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi.

Piastri and Zhou are both members of the  Academy. Piastri will become Alpine's F1 reserve driver next year, and is set to have a year without racing to focus on the role.

Zhou is not expected to retain links to Alpine when he joins Alfa Romeo for next year, clearing the path for Piastri as the team's leading young driver.

"I think that is another way of looking at it, definitely," Piastri acknowledged.

"I think in a big team like Alpine that's obviously a manufacturer as well, I'd like to hope that the financial side wasn't so much a big factor.

"So going forward, I don't know how much of a role that would have played.

"But I guess it's nice in some ways to have Zhou I guess out of the picture a little bit."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alfa-romeo-too-risky-to-promote-pourchaire-to-f1-for-2022/6801688/
DATE: 2021

announced earlier this week that it had signed Formula 2 title contender Guanyu Zhou for next season, partnering the incoming .

It ended the hopes of Sauber junior Pourchaire, who also races in F2 and currently sits fifth in the championship in his rookie season, of making the leap up to F1 for next year.

Speaking on Friday in Qatar, Alfa Romeo team boss Vasseur confirmed that Pourchaire would be remaining in F2 next season.

"We had a long discussion the last couple of weeks," Vasseur said. "He did a fantastic season in F2 for the first one, but we have also to keep in mind that 18 months ago, he was in F4.

"The step between F4 and F3 was huge. Then he did well in F3, the same for the F2. He won this season in Monaco.

"But the car is so complex and we have just six test days before the season, it means that it could have been, from my point of view, too risky, too challenging to do the step now.

"It's much better to be focused on the championship in F2 next year, and we will see the future."

Théo Pourchaire, Alfa Romeo

Teams will be required to field a young driver for at least two practice sessions in 2022, opening the door for Pourchaire to make his F1 weekend debut.

The French youngster enjoyed his first F1 test with Alfa Romeo at a private test in August, but is set for further running next year alongside his F2 commitments.

"He will do for sure some FP1s, we will do some test days," Vasseur said.

"We will try to prepare him for the future, but again, when you're doing the championship in F2, the most important is to win the championship and not to prepare the future or something like this.

"And I will ask him to be champion in F2."

Zhou is currently in his third season in F2, lying second in the standings, and has already conducted F1 testing with  as part of his place on its junior programme.

Asked by Motorsport.com what qualities Zhou had shown to convince Alfa Romeo to sign him for next year, Vasseur felt his performance was "speaking for itself".

"He is a frontrunner, he won this season in Bahrain and Silverstone," Vasseur said.

"In F2, it's probably the two most demanding tracks, Bahrain for tyre management and Silverstone, it's with the high-speed corners.

"He did some pole positions, he's always there, consistent, and I'm sure that he will do well next year."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/giovinazzi-vows-to-remain-professional-with-alfa-romeo-in-final-three-races/6797834/
DATE: 2021

announced earlier this week that Giovinazzi would be leaving the team at the end of the season, with Formula 2 title contender Guanyu Zhou taking his seat.

In confirming his departure from the team, Giovinazzi wrote on social media that "when money rules it can be ruthless", hinting at the financial backing Zhou will be bringing next year.

It led to criticism from Vasseur, who said on  that he was "not a big fan of this kind of attitude" and noted the opportunity Alfa Romeo had provided Giovinazzi in F1.

Speaking on Thursday in Qatar, Giovinazzi revealed he was yet to speak with Vasseur about the posts as his team boss was yet to arrive at the track.

But he underlined his belief that he had acted professionally, and vowed to continue to do so through his final three races with the team.

"I think I have been professional in these last few years, and I will be professional these last few races," Giovinazzi said.

"So [I have] nothing to add, to be honest. With myself I'm happy, and I think I feel that I've been professional in these last few years, and will be in the last three races."

Antonio Giovinazzi, Alfa Romeo Racing and Pierre Gasly, AlphaTauri

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Following his exit from the team, Giovinazzi will move into Formula E after signing with Dragon for the upcoming campaign.

But the Italian hoped he would still have some kind of involvement with F1 through his links to , potentially as a reserve driver, and added he had an interest in Ferrari's upcoming Hypercar programme in the World Endurance Championship.

"About Hypercar, they will go on in 2023, so there is no news yet about this," Giovinazzi said when asked about a possible move to the sportscar programme.

"But so far what I know that I will do FE, and it's a great championship, I will enjoy that.

"Plus we are trying to stay here as well, like a third driver in Ferrari. And see what what will happen in 2022.

"For sure [WEC] is one that championship that I would like to join. But it is too early to know and to decide."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/giovinazzi-when-money-rules-f1-can-be-ruthless/6787541/
DATE: 2021

to well-funded Chinese driver Guanyu Zhou, who is making the step up from Formula 2 to be Valtteri Bottas' teammate.

Zhou's promotion is understood to have been eased by backing from Chinese sponsors, which ensure  of a budget that Giovinazzi himself could not have matched.

After a career where Giovinazzi has battled the odds to make it to the top on talent alone, having never had wealthy supporters to bankroll him, the Italian is obviously disappointed to have seen his grand prix career come to an end.

Posting on his social media channels, Giovinazzi said he would push on until his final F1 race, but there was no denying about some of the factors that he believed had contributed to his exit.

"F1 is emotion, talent, cars, risk, speed," he wrote, posting an image of himself sitting in a toy  car as a child. "But when money rules it can be ruthless.

"I believe in the surprise of an unexpected result, of big or small victories achieved thanks to one's commitment. If this was my first picture on a F1, the last still has to be taken."

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

As well as any short-term sponsorship that Zhou brings with him, Alfa Romeo has openly spoken about how China's first F1 driver could open up huge commercial opportunities for the whole of grand prix racing.

Antonio Giovinazzi, Alfa Romeo Racing C41

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Team principal Fred Vasseur told Motorsport.com: "Everybody's excited. It's not just about Alfa Romeo, Orlen or another one, you know that everybody's trying to develop commercial links with China, and this is the best way to do it.

"It's much more about potential. It could be much faster than '23/'24. For us and our sales department, it's a huge opportunity, and we have to work on it."

F1 recently made it clear that it was fully committed to the future of the Chinese Grand Prix, having rolled over its ongoing contract until the end of 2025.

Giovinazzi's future is unclear, but as a member of Ferrari's young driver academy he could take a reserve and test driver role with the F1 squad alongside potential sportscar opportunities.

UPDATE: Just a few hours following the announcement about his departure from F1 after the 2021 season, Giovinazzi secured a switch to FE with Jay Penske’s Dragon squad.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/the-opportunities-zhou-opens-up-for-alfa-romeo-/6787515/
DATE: 2021

In so doing so, the 22-year-old becomes China's first driver at the top level of motor racing, providing the championship with a boost the ultimate scale of which we can only guess at.

It's no coincidence that the announcement came a few weeks after F1 confirmed that the Chinese GP will return in 2023 after a three-year pandemic hiatus, with a deal that now runs until 2025.

Former F1 CEO Chase Carey and his successor Stefano Domenicali have often mentioned China in the same breath as the USA in terms of markets they want to conquer and, with Zhou, F1 now has a chance to do just that.

The hope throughout the paddock is that he will have the sort of impact that  has had in the Netherlands, or  in Mexico.

"I think for the company, for current sponsors work, for the nine other teams, for F1 in general, it's a huge opportunity," team boss Fred Vasseur tells Motorsport.com.

"Huge. I think it's really important that if you want to develop the team, but even for F1, the approach is the same. It makes sense to open a new market like China.

"And I think that Zhou will be the perfect ambassador for this, because he did very well in the junior series, much better than all the Chinese drivers before. However I know perfectly that it will be a challenge, because it's always a challenge when you are joining F1."

Zhou clearly comes with his own sponsorship package, but his arrival is a boost too for the team's other existing backers.  sells cars in China, while title sponsor Orlen also has a strong presence.

"Everybody's excited," says Vasseur. "It's not just about Alfa Romeo, Orlen or another one, you know that everybody's trying to develop commercial links with China, and this is the best way to do it."

And the hope is that other Chinese companies will come on board in future seasons: "It's much more about potential. It could be much faster than '23/'24. For us and our sales department, it's a huge opportunity, and we have to work on it."

Kimi Raikkonen, Alfa Romeo Racing C41

Photo by: Jerry Andre /

The commercial side is key to his deal, but it would be wrong to dismiss Zhou as a pay driver, after all there are many others on the current grid attached to commercial packages.

He is also a hugely promising talent who has shown steady upward progress through his career. He currently lies second in the FIA F2 championship, admittedly in his third year in the category, but that makes him more than qualified to make the step up on merit.

"It was an important decision for the company, for the future of the company," says Vasseur.

"We have a big change in terms of regulations for 2022. We evaluated all the options that we had on the table. Valtteri was quite obvious for me. And alongside Valtteri, we had different options, and for tons of different reasons Zhou is the first choice.

"It's never one thing. Performance is not based on one single pillar, it's always a combination of speed, collaboration with the team, collaboration with the team mate, the financial side. And for the development of the company, I think it's a good step forward."

An intriguing aspect of Zhou's career is that his family made an early commitment to bring him to Europe in his teens. It was a big step, and one that has paid off.

"Putting aside the fact he's Chinese, it's impressive to do this kind of move when you are 13, because I think he was 13 when he came to Italy," says Vasseur.

"I remember perfectly when guys like  went to Japan, they were much older, but for them it was huge. At the beginning Stoffel was struggling to be in front in Japan.

"We don't have to underestimate this. Also when they are able to manage this aspect of the situation, they are doing a good step forward, because it's a real challenge."

Progress has been a hallmark of Zhou's career, steered by a management team that includes former Manor/Marussia F1 team boss Graeme Lowdon.

Runner-up in the 2015 Italian F4 championship – in a field that saw  make occasional appearances – Zhou subsequently spent three seasons in F3 with Motopark and latterly Prema, winning a couple of races in his final year.

Guanyu Zhou, Uni-Virtuosi Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Moving up to F2 with UNI-Virtuosi he scored several podium finishes in 2019, and took his first sprint win in 2020, when he finished sixth in the championship. This year has seen a further step with feature wins in Bahrain and Silverstone.

"You know that I'm paying a lot of attention to the junior series," says Vasseur. "In F2 he did well last year, and he's doing very well this season. He did two or three pole positions. He had some wins. I think that when you're able to win in Silverstone it's a good signal.

"He's a frontrunner, and he can still be champion at the end, but it's very tight. He's doing a very solid job. I think it a good reason for us to move forward with him.

"We didn't collaborate in the junior series, and I don't know him very well. But if you have a look, he appeared to be able to improve, and that means that he is clever, and step-by-step, he doing the job. Who knows if he will be champion or not at the end? It's a bit too early.

"But he did very strong events this season in F2, strong quali, strong races. In some events he was just flying. I think that he's a good combination of everything. And I like also his approach, a good relationship with the team management, and that's important."

Progress is key: "We have to keep the same momentum. For sure if he is able to improve and to progress over the years like this, it shows that he has the right approach.

"I think that his management are very experienced, they are able to help him a lot, and we know each other for ages. And it's also good to have this kind of relationship around the drivers."

Zhou has been working away quietly with  as a junior driver, running in the sim and testing the team's old Renault chassis, as well as completing an FP1 session in Austria earlier this year.

The mileage has given him a useful head start before his first Alfa run in Abu Dhabi next month.

"He'd done perhaps 10 test days or something like this, and a lot of simulator sessions. It's a good training, and it's important because that we know perfectly that the number of test days next year will be tricky.

"We have six test days on paper, plus Abu Dhabi, then we know that we could have some issues with the weather in Bahrain or Barcelona, and that the reliability is not guaranteed, because it's a completely new car."

One thing is clear, he is now an Alfa Romeo driver, and he's leaving Alpine behind.

"He is not managed at all by Alpine, and is not anymore under contract with Alpine," says Vasseur. "It was important for me, because I need also to be free and to work for the future. It would make no sense for me to have a one-year project if I know that for '23 there is no way.

Guanyu Zhou, Alpine A521

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

"I have a good relationship with Alpine. And it's important also for me to do it very openly, to discuss with them the situation. In the end it's a good story also for them, they helped him to come to F1."

Alfa heads into the new era of 2022 as the only team to have changed both drivers. It's an intriguing combination, with Bottas finally out of the shadow of  as clear team leader, and Zhou the rookie finding his feet.

"To have this kind of line-up with Valtteri having done pole positions and won races is a huge push for the company," says Vasseur. "We know also that he will have a huge pressure on his shoulders next year.

"I like this feeling at the end of the day, because we are all working under pressure. And this is the DNA of our business. And next year will be a huge challenge for us, with Zhou, with Valtteri for different reasons, and the new car. It's an exciting challenge."

What the team won't have is continuity in the cockpit. With all the other changes won't that lack of a reference be a handicap?

"I don't think so," says Vasseur. "I know that Gunther [Steiner] is convinced with this, but I don't think so. I think that it's important to have someone with experience. Because the team could be a bit lost. But then to do the comparison with the car of the year before, it makes no sense."

It could be argued that a change of rules is the ideal time to bring in a rookie, as it's a re-set for everyone else as well.

"I don't know if there is a good time to do it. When you see the regulations today, it's quite a huge step. But on the other hand F2 is also a good preparation, they are already running the 18-inch tire with Pirelli. They are running the same tracks. I think that the timing is good for him."

Zhou is also smart enough not to make waves and to absorb what he can from his new team mate.

"I hope that we will give him the opportunity to learn from Valtteri," says Vasseur. "And it's always beneficial to have someone with experience alongside, when the guy is able to do pole positions and to win races, it's a good example.

"And on the top of this I think Valtteri is a good professional, a good guy. He will be helpful for the team, he will be helpful for Zhou, and the collaboration will be fine."

Guanyu Zhou, UNI-Virtuosi

Photo by: Formula Motorsport Ltd

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/antonio-giovinazzi-leave-alfa-romeo-after-2021/6787423/
DATE: 2021

The Italian squad has the only seat left available for the 2022 season, and Giovinazzi was still hopeful of securing another year at the Hinwil-based squad.

However, on Tuesday morning the team made the announcement that it will not retain Giovinazzi.

"Saying goodbye to a driver is never easy, especially so in the case of Antonio, who has been part of the team for so long," said team boss Fred Vasseur.

"As we part ways, we will cherish the memories of the good times and learn lessons from the bad ones, knowing these moments all made us grow together as a team.

"We wish Antonio the best for his future after the 2021 season: before then, we still have three races to achieve some good results together and finish the year strongly."

Giovinazzi, who joined Alfa in 2019, was the first Italian to compete in F1 full time since the 2011 season.

The 27-year-old is set to be replaced by Guanyu Zhou, with an announcement expected imminently.

Zhou, who took part in Friday practice for the Austrian Grand Prix with Alpine this year, will become the first Chinese driver to compete in Formula 1.

The 22-year-old from Shanghai will partner Valtteri Bottas at Alfa Romeo, the Finn leaving Mercedes at the end of a campaign after five seasons racing alongside Lewis Hamilton.

Zhou is currently second in the Formula 2 standings with the two rounds, and six races, in Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi remaining.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alfa-raikkonen-giovinazzi-crash-a-misunderstanding/6781425/
DATE: 2021

Raikkonen was knocked into a spin by his teammate Giovinazzi early in the event while the two cars were battling with  .

However, the incident was not pursued by the FIA stewards, and Vasseur said that his drivers had talked it through after the flag and agreed it was a racing incident.

Giovinazzi finished the sprint in 13th place, while Raikkonen recovered to 18th.

However, the Finn is set to start Sunday's race from the pitlane after the team changed the spec of his rear wing in an attempt to gain better straightline speed, and allow him to overtake in the main event.

Any such parc ferme change automatically triggers a pitlane start.

"I think it was more a misunderstanding," Vasseur told Motorsport.com about the crash. "Because they overtook Alonso, one on the left hand side one on the right hand side.

"I think Kimi didn't expect to have Antonio on the apex. It is like it is. They had a good chat together, and they are very relaxed at the end of the day. They had a very open and nice discussion.

"It's a shame because the pace of Antonio was good. He damaged the car a little bit, but the pace was good. If we'd had the two cars in 12th and 13th we could have put them into the points, but let's see. We still have a good opportunity."

Sebastian Vettel, Aston Martin AMR21, Kimi Raikkonen, Alfa Romeo Racing C41, Nicholas Latifi, Williams FW43B, Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes W12, and the remainder of the field

Photo by: Jerry Andre /

Giovinazzi said he was not concerned that a collision with his teammate would lead to issues with his team once he got back to the garage.

"I wasn't worried, I knew that there was nothing to do there in that moment," he told Motorsport.com.

"We were three cars on the straight, and then on the braking Kimi also couldn't see me on the inside, so I had no space to avoid him.

"In the race I'm P13, so we gained one position. The pace is not too bad so we need to see what will be the best strategy."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/giovinazzi-rues-completely-wrong-alfa-romeo-f1-strategy/6762809/
DATE: 2021

From 11th on the grid the Italian had a great first lap,

He lost a spot to Carlos Sainz after the restart, but he was still running a strong seventh ahead of  when he was called in for an early pit stop on lap 16, having reported that he was struggling with his rear tyres.

He emerged as the team had expected behind  and .

However, he then got caught behind them until they made their stops much later in the race, and was thus unable to take full advantage of his new tyres.

Alfa admitted that it miscalculated the pace of Ricciardo and Bottas, believing that they would speed up after , who had been running ahead of them, made his early stop.

After crossing the line in 11th Giovinazzi offered a sarcastic, "Hey guys, thanks for the great strategy" message on the radio.

Although teammate  logged an eighth place, the lost points could prove critical in Alfa's battle for eighth position in the championship with , while Giovinazzi is trying to save his F1 career, with his seat looking set to go to Guanyu Zhou.

"I'm just really disappointed because today we had the chance to score points with two cars," he said.

"But on my side, the strategy was completely wrong. We pitted too early, but I don't think was the issue. The issue was that when I came out, I was in traffic. And the strategy didn't work. So, yeah, just really disappointed.

"I think today, if Kimi [Raikkonen] stayed P8 and I was P7 at that moment, so disappointing because the team didn't score as much as possible. And this is really hard for myself as well. But it's like this.

"It was just a great first lap, but in the end, it didn't do anything for my end result. So good first lap, just disappointed with the situation.

Alfa team principal Fred Vasseur admitted that the Hinwil squad had miscalculated.

"For sure it was a strong performance overall from the quali," he told Motorsport.com. "We had a good start, we avoided the crash, we were running P6 and P9, and then P7 and P9 when Sainz passed Antonio.

"The pace was OK, but we made a choice on the strategy. We were very surprised with the pace of Ricciardo and Bottas, and then we were stuck behind them, which was a bit a shame, because he did a great job.

"Honestly the strategy was not stupid at this stage, but it didn't work, because we didn't expect Ricciardo and Bottas would be so slow. At least with Kimi we scored some good points."

Antonio Giovinazzi, Alfa Romeo Racing C41

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Alfa now lies 12 points behind Williams, and Vasseur admits that his team has missed scoring opportunities that its rival was able to take.

"In terms of pure performance, we did a step forward," he said. "When the weekends are going well, we are able to score good points. Now for sure if you have a look at the season, we missed too many opportunities.

"I think in Budapest we were in good shape and the crash put us out of the points and Williams in the points. It was our best quali of the season, and the crash was at the front, and we were out with the crash. It would have been better to start two rows behind like Williams!"

"You can rewrite the story of Spa – I'm not sure [George] Russell would have stayed in P2, and this could have been a good opportunity for us.

"But let's stay focussed. We scored four points in Sochi, four points here, we have four more races to go. Let's see what could happen."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/bottas-aiming-for-abu-dhabi-f1-test-debut-with-alfa-romeo/6759052/
DATE: 2021

Bottas has already visited the Hinwil factory and had a seat fitting in anticipation of a deal being reached.

Usually in such situations, complex commercial arrangements have to be addressed. However, the date of the 18-inch tyre test – on December 14-15 – is so late in the calendar year that it falls close to the end of any relevant contracts.

A  spokesperson told Motorsport.com that there was no reason for the team to stand in the way of Bottas testing for Alfa, adding that "we are working on it".

"I've been a few weeks ago," the Finn said of his Hinwil visit. "It's a good factory, so they have all the facilities needed to be a strong team.

"I think they haven't really developed this year's car. So I'm not expecting much progress from them this year. So I think they are looking forward to next year since January."

Bottas confirmed that he also had a seat fitting, while regarding the possibility of doing the test he said: "TBC. We'll see. Hopefully, yes."

Valtteri Bottas, Mercedes W12, Antonio Giovinazzi, Alfa Romeo Racing C41

Photo by: Steve Etherington /

Alfa team principal Fred Vasseur said that talks about a release are under way.

"We have to discuss with Mercedes and of course and have to find an agreement on this," he told Motorsport.com.

"I hope that we will able to find something. A contract is a contract, and he has a contract until the end of the year, so we have to find a solution.

"Even if the car will be completely different next year, it's a good exercise for both sides to do it, and to have the experience of working together.

"I think it makes sense for him to do the test for us, and it will be a good opportunity. It's more about building up the relationship between the team and the driver."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/giovinazzi-alfa-f1-future-news/6746299/
DATE: 2021

Giovinazzi is currently nearing the end of his third full F1 season with the Swiss-based team but is widely expected to be dropped for 2022.

Alfa was understood to be leaning towards signing Formula 2 driver Guanyu Zhou for next year before talks with Andretti Autosport over a possible takeover led to Colton Herta entering the frame for the seat.

But the  leaving it unclear who will partner the incoming  next season and take the last remaining seat on the grid for 2022.

When asked if he had any news about his future ahead of this weekend's race in Mexico, Giovinazzi said: “I don't know if it's good or bad news, but I have no news now. So we'll see.

“We'll see in the next weeks. Hopefully it can be something [worked] out, but like I mentioned, I don't know if it's good or bad news.”

Antonio Giovinazzi, Alfa Romeo Racing C41

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Giovinazzi added that he was “trying to ask every week” for updates from the team, but he “still had not had news yet”.

The Italian driver has scored just one point this season – finishing 10th at the Monaco Grand Prix – and conceded that it was difficult entering the final five races still lacking certainty about his future.

“For sure it is not ideal to come to the track [and] you don't know what you will do next year or what will happen, but it's like this,” Giovinazzi said. “Hopefully we can know bad or good news soon, so at least we know what will happen and it will be better for everyone in the team.

“It is not easy, like I say, but you know, there’s nothing that I can do. The only thing I can do is drive fast in the car, bring the result, and then that is not my decision.

“So I think it's more for Fred [Vasseur, team principal] than for me.”

Should Giovinazzi fail to keep his seat with  for next year, it is unclear what programme he would pursue, having previously said he would only consider alternative options once his F1 future had been defined.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alfa-romeo-cleared-the-air-giovinazzi-turkey-team-orders/6703578/
DATE: 2021

Giovinazzi was given the call to let Raikkonen pass him in the closing stages of the race two weeks ago at Istanbul Park after being quickly caught by his  teammate.

But Giovinazzi did not move aside for Raikkonen as he pushed to catch  for the final point in P10, falling 0.8 seconds short at the chequered flag. Alfa Romeo head of track engineering Xevi Pujolar said after the race Giovinazzi had “himself decided that he wanted to stay ahead”.

Team principal Vasseur discussed the incident on Friday ahead of the United States Grand Prix, saying that Giovinazzi had been too conservative in his approach late on, but he did not wish to place blame.

“At one stage Kimi pushed more, and we thought that we were able to keep the tyres, and we asked Antonio either to push or to let him go,” Vasseur said.

“He was probably too conservative, but I don’t want to blame him. But we had the discussion.

“He was a bit lost with the quantity of the attack he has to do, that for sure he could be much faster. And he was too conservative.

“We lost the points, clearly, but I don’t want to blame Antonio that we had the discussion. I think he was sticking to the plan and when we had the window to push more, he took two or three laps to understand that he could push more. It is like it is.”

Asked if the team had cleared the air with Giovinazzi, Vasseur replied: “Yes.”

Giovinazzi’s future with Alfa Romeo remains unclear beyond the end of the season as the team continues to weigh up driver options to partner  in 2022.

Guanyu Zhou was understood to be leading the chase for the seat, but the  has led to uncertainty over how the team will proceed for the second seat.

Giovinazzi said on Thursday in Austin that it was “not ideal” to not know if he would be staying at Alfa Romeo for next season, accepting there was “some pressure on me”.

Vasseur shied away from commenting on the situation surrounding the ownership of the team, but said it was “not in a rush” to decide on the second seat.

“We have a couple of options and we will take a decision soon,” he said.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/kubica-fp1-bahrain-alfa-romeo/4916012/
DATE: 2020

Kubica, who is Alfa’s reserve driver, will take over Kimi Raikkonen’s car for the opening practice session at the Sakhir circuit on Friday.

The former BMW Sauber, Renault and Williams F1 driver raced for customer BMW squad ART in the DTM after leaving Williams at the end of 2019.

He as has taken part in three other practice sessions for Alfa so far this season after joining the squad the start of the year.

Kubica’s other practice appearances came during the opening phase of the delayed season, starting with the Styrian GP, then a week later in Hungary, and then FP1 for the 70th Anniversary GP at Silverstone.

“I am very pleased to be back in the driving seat for the first time since August,” said Kubica.

“It may sound like a long time, but my season has been really busy with my simulator work at the factory and my DTM programme, so it actually felt like it went quite quickly.

“Now that my DTM season is over, I am keen to get back into my Alfa Romeo Racing role full time: there is still a lot to fight for and I am confident my work will make a positive contribution to the team’s efforts.”

Alfa team principal Frederic Vasseur said: “We are all pleased to see Robert get back in the car for FP1.

“His contribution to the team has been important so far this season and to be able to get the most of his experience and skills here in Bahrain is going to help the team continue its current path of progression.

“Sakhir is a circuit he knows really well and this will really help our work this weekend.”

Raikkonen will return to the cockpit of his C39 for the rest of the Bahrain weekend.

This weekend’s race is using the usual 3.362 -mile layout at the Sakhir circuit, before the F1 season continues at the same venue next week for the second leg of the final triple header of the campaign.

That race will take place on the shorter, 2.201-mile outer loop configuration.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/giovinazzi-alfa-romeo-start-imola/4902820/
DATE: 2020

The Italian,, made up six places on the first lap, helped by some incidents ahead. He eventually finished in 10th place, logging his third points finish of the season.

With little to lose from the back of the grid, Alfa took a different route by putting Giovinazzi on soft tyres for the start, while the nine cars immediately in front of him were on mediums.

He outdragged Nicholas Latifi off the line, and then exiting the first chicane he passed Romain Grosjean and Lance Stroll when both ran wide, the latter after damaging his front wing.

At the exit of Tosa he gained two more places when Kevin Magnussen spun and he was also able to duck inside Alfa teammate Kimi Raikkonen. He then passed Sebastian Vettel into the following corner.

Giovinazzi has made a habit of gaining ground at starts in recent races.

“An amazing first lap, I gained six positions again,” he said. “Yesterday night I did again quite a lot of work watching all the starts, from Formula Renault, Formula 4, all the stuff I had here in the laptop. And I put it all together on lap one, a little bit of luck and everything, and this is it.

“We pushed quite a lot in the beginning of the race with the soft, and then we changed to medium, pushing until the end.”

Giovinazzi did not pit under the safety car but managed to hold onto his 10th place after the resumption, finishing just behind Raikkonen, who had undertaken an unusually long opening stint.

“It was a little bit tricky in the end, with the mediums they were quite old, and the temperature dropped. It was difficult to keep the people behind who were on softs.

“I did the maximum the keep all the cars behind, and I was in the points, so I was really pushing very hard. It’s a good thing to celebrate the renewal of the contract.

“I think it was all good. I think also with Kimi scoring points with two cars is something great for the team and Alfa Romeo.”

Alfa trackside engineering chief Xevi Pujolar agreed that Giovinazzi’s strategy had played out well.

"We were a bit on the aggressive side, not with Kimi, but with Antonio,” said the Spaniard. “But then we were trying to cover both ends, with Antonio we were covering the early pitstops, and then with Kimi the late ones, in case of different safety career scenarios.

“We were surprised when Antonio boxed quite early with the soft then people starting with the medium were covering us, trying to protect as well, and going with the hard.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/fia-giovinazzi-lost-wheel-russell/4866476/
DATE: 2020

A rear wheel became detached from Giovinazzi’s Alfa Romeo after he spun into the barrier early in the Belgian GP.

The wheel subsequently bounced back across the track and into the path of Williams driver George Russell, who was left with nowhere to go.

The issue of flying wheels was first addressed by the FIA with the introduction of tethers in 1999. Their spec was upgraded in 2004, and again several times since, and in recent seasons it has been rare to see a wheel come off in an accident.

“Yes, it is a concern,” said Masi. “Why it became detached, I'm not 100% sure. But immediately once the car came back to the drop-off area, our technical teams already started their investigation, taking a number of photos, and we've got all the available footage.

"So the FIA technical department together with the safety department will investigate why.

“I think it's too early to draw any conclusions. With an incident like that I think you need to look at all the available data, and process it, and let the appropriate people have a really good look into the whole thing, the incident itself and what happened.

“And then from there actually make an educated decision rather than a knee-jerk reaction, if any improvements are required.”

Russell admitted it was “pretty scary” when he saw the wheel coming towards him.

“I saw Antonio hit the wall,” he said. “I managed to have a second to decide whether to go left or right, and I saw him coming out of the wall and sort of staying slightly to the right, in which case I committed to the left.

“And I think suddenly he got flicked over by one of his rear wheels and that launched across and hit my car. It was, for a very split second, it was pretty scary seeing that massive rear tyre flying across the circuit, with no idea where it was going to go, so I’m thankful for the halo.”

Russell hopes that F1 learns from the incident.

“I find it more surprising how it hasn't happened more often. The amount of force you hit the barriers at, you need something incredibly impressive to be able to hold it on.

“And obviously that’s what we need to work towards, because the reality is, obviously I was unfortunate for it to hit my car today, but that could hit a marshal or somebody in the crowd.

“So that’s the most important thing. And year on year F1 are taking massive steps in safety, and from every incident you learn the limitations, and obviously this is something that needs to be improved.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/russell-halo-giovinazzi-tyre-spa/4865855/
DATE: 2020

Giovinazzi crashed at the exit of Les Fagnes on Lap 10 of the race, spinning into the barrier on the right-hand side of the track.

The Alfa Romeo car bounced back towards the racing line, forcing Russell to take evasive action and crash his Williams into the wall on the left-hand side of the track.

A loose wheel from Giovinazzi’s car hit the front-left wheel on Russell’s car during the collision, but both were able to get out of their cars unharmed.

The crash resulted in the safety car being deployed while the cars were removed and the debris strewn across the track was cleared, but there was no need for a red flag.

Speaking after returning to the paddock, Russell called the crash “very unlucky” and said there was “nowhere I could have gone” to avoid the collision.

The Williams driver also paid tribute to the halo cockpit protection on his car, saying it was quite scary to see an errant tyre coming towards him.

“If I went to the right, that’s where Antonio’s car was, and at the left side of the track, I had a massive impact with the tyre,” Russell said.

“But I have to say you feel much safer in the car now with the halo. When I saw this massive tyre coming towards me, it was quite scary to be honest.

“So I’m very thankful that we have this halo on the car right now.

"I’m all fine. Just a little bit frustrated obviously. But that’s racing sometimes.”

Giovinazzi explained that he suffered with a snap of oversteer as he was exiting the corner, causing him to crash out.

“Unfortunately I had a snap of oversteer on the exit, nothing I could do,” Giovinazzi said.

“I'm just sorry for my team after what happened today. But I have to reset my mind right now for Italy.

“I feel really sorry for [Russell], as I destroyed his race as well. Really unfortunate what happened to him. I'm just sorry.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/kubica-returns-alfa-romeo-cockpit-silverstone-fp1/4849850/
DATE: 2020

One-time grand prix winner Kubica joined Alfa Romeo as its reserve and test driver for the 2020 season after making his full-time F1 return with Williams last year.

The Pole featured in opening practice for the Styrian Grand Prix and the Hungarian Grand Prix last month as part of his agreement with the team.

Alfa Romeo has announced that Kubica will get more time in the cockpit this weekend at Silverstone for the 70th Anniversary Grand Prix, taking over from Antonio Giovinazzi for first practice.

“I am happy to get back behind the wheel in this busy early part of the season,” Kubica said. “Driving an F1 car is always special, but even more so in a place like Silverstone.

“The track has so much history and it’s one that tests both driver and machine: it’s one of the great venues of motorsport and driving around here, even without the fans, gives you such a buzz.

“My main focus, however, remains towards helping the team develop the car.”

Alfa Romeo F1 team principal Frederic Vasseur added: “I am pleased to see Robert returning to the car this weekend.

“His feedback has been of the highest quality in his previous outings and his work is proving really valuable for the team, both when he is in the car and during our engineering meetings.

“Robert knows Silverstone inside out and I am sure he will help us make a step forward as the season progresses.”

Kubica’s FP1 outing comes one week after making his DTM debut with BMW at Spa, where he recorded a 14th-place finish in both races.

Kubica moved into DTM after failing to secure a full-time F1 seat for this season following a difficult one-year stint racing at Williams, during which he scored the team’s only point of 2019 at the German Grand Prix.

His next DTM outing will come across the Spanish Grand Prix weekend on August 15-16, racing at the Lausitzring in Germany.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/kubica-alfa-romeo-raikkonen-hungary/4836043/
DATE: 2020

The Pole, who made his Grand Prix debut with BMW Sauber at the Hungaroring in 2006, will take over Kimi Raikkonen’s C39 for the morning session.

Kubica drove Antonio Giovinazzi’s car in FP1 last weekend, but missing a session was less costly for the Italian that it will be for Raikkonen, as Giovinazzi already had the benefit of doing the previous race weekend at the same track.

Team boss Fred Vasseur stressed that Kubica is playing an important role in improving the car.

“Developing the C39 quickly and effectively will be one of the key aspects of the midfield battle,” said Vasseur. “And Robert is one of the biggest assets the team has on its side.

“He did a thoroughly fine job in Austria last week and I am happy to have him in the car once more.

“The data he provided our engineers have already proven valuable, but there is a lot of work still to be done and having three great drivers to receive information from is a definite advantage.”

“Driving one of these cars is always an incredible feeling and therefore I can’t wait for Friday,” said Kubica. “Emotions aside, we cannot forget how crucial car development is, especially in this compressed 2020 season.

“The team needs data and feedback and providing as much valuable information is what I am here for. We had a productive weekend last time out and my aim is to help the team make another step forward here in Hungary.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alfa-romeo-fine-raikkonen-wheel-austria/4826344/
DATE: 2020

Raikkonen dived into pitlane for a new set of tyres when the safety car was called with around 17 laps remaining after Williams' George Russell ground to a halt on the exit of Turn 4.

Rejoining the race in 12th as the safety car peeled into the pits at the end of lap 54, Raikkonen's front-right wheel detached as he rounded Turn 9 and came off completely as he exited the corner.

The Finn was forced to park up on the main straight, which led to another safety car period, with his errant wheel coming to a rest in the gravel on the exit of the final corner.

A post-race investigation by the FIA concluded that a wheel not was cross-threaded during his pit stop, though noted that in a statement that the team was unaware it had released the car in an unsafe condition.

The FIA statement read: "The Stewards heard from the team representative and reviewed video and technical evidence provided by the FIA Technical Delegate, as well as car telemetry by the team.

"Having examined photos of the damaged wheel and the axle shaft, it is evident that the wheel nut of the RHS [right-hand side] front wheel got cross-threaded during the wheel change, which was not identified by the wheel gun operator.

"As a consequence the front right wheel went off when the car was back in the race.

"The Stewards accept, however, that neither the team, nor the driver had the opportunity to realise that the car was in an unsafe condition and therefore did not stop the car.

"Taking into account these circumstances, a fine of €5000 is appropriate."

Commenting on the incident, Raikkonen said he had "no warning" of the issue before it happened.

Raikkonen was one of nine drivers to retire from a chaotic season opener at the Red Bull Ring.

Teammate Antonio Giovinazzi capped off a bittersweet day for Alfa Romeo with a ninth-place finish to secure two championship points, beating the recovering Ferrari of Sebastian Vettel – who suffered a spin earlier in the race after contact with McLaren's Carlos Sainz.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alfa-romeo-mclaren-australian-gp-race-quarantine/4752661/
DATE: 2020

McLaren announced its withdrawal from the Melbourne race late on Thursday evening after a team member was tested positive for the coronavirus.

The other nine team bosses met with Ross Brawn later in the evening, and Alfa Romeo was one of the teams that push for a cancellation, joining Ferrari, Mercedes and Renault in sending letters to the FIA explaining their rationale.

“As a racer it’s difficult to take this kind of decision,” Vasseur told Motorsport.com.

“But firstly we have to think about our employees, the safety of the fans, the image of the sport, the image of the sponsors, and also about McLaren, because it would have been a bit unfair to have let them withdraw alone. I think it was the right decision.

“It’s not easy for the team, because everybody pushed like hell to be on time in Melbourne, on the race team but also back in the factory.

"But we have to take the decision, perhaps it’s a shame that it’s a bit too late. But it exploded so quickly.”

The Bahrain and Vietnamese Grands Prix have been officially postponed along with Australia, and most expect the season to start no sooner than the Azerbaijan Grand Prix in June.

“The situation is not easy, it’s a huge disaster all over the world," Vasseur continued. "F1 is not the centre of the world, so let’s do it step-by-step. The first step is not an easy one.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/barcelona-test-report-day-one-kubica/4696985/
DATE: 2020

Kubica’s 1m16.942s time, set during the morning session on a set of the C5 tyres, was out of reach for the drivers participating in the afternoon – in which only Haas’s Romain Grosjean carried over from the morning.

Having suffered from a spin early on in the session at the last chicane, Kubica bolted on the softest tyre compound to post his quickest time of the day – which withstood the afternoon’s siege as the focus shifted to race simulations.

Taking over from teammate Alex Albon for the afternoon, Max Verstappen was the fastest man in the final four hours of running, vaulting up to second on the overall timesheets with a 1m17.347s lap on C3 tyres.

Verstappen then locked up at Turn 10 with five minutes left on the clock, and was unable to get going once again – remaining stranded on the run-off to trigger the final red flag of the day.

The afternoon’s running had been largely incident-free before that, with most drivers conducting a flurry of long runs on the harder compounds to simulate race mileage.

AlphaTauri’s Daniil Kvyat also came to a halt at the end of the session, albeit in unrelated circumstances to Verstappen as he stopped next to Turn 4.

Racing Point’s Sergio Perez got within a tenth of Verstappen on the same C3 compound with 20 minutes to spare, while Kvyat similarly late lap prior to his stoppage was good enough for fourth overall.

Pierre Gasly filed in behind teammate Kvyat despite only managing 25 laps in the morning session, having been stranded in the garage with a loose pipe aboard his AT01 car.

He was just one-hundredth of a second ahead of Alex Albon, who also had very little running in the morning, having suffered with suspension problems.

Lewis Hamilton recorded 89 laps in the morning - with the best among those a 1m17.562 - to slot into seventh ahead of Lance Stroll, who continued Racing Point’s impressive testing pace and led a portion of the pre-lunch running.

Valtteri Bottas took Mercedes’ total lap count of the day to 179, ending the day ninth, while Sebastian Vettel shook off an early spin at Turn 8 to complete the top 10.

Vettel’s excursion prompted the first red flag of the day after the Ferrari driver kicked up a hefty amount of gravel onto the circuit, while the second came courtesy of Nicholas Latifi – who had to pull over at the exit of turn 9.

Latifi later divulged that his Williams had suffered from an oil systems problem, which curtailed his running for the day before George Russell took over for the afternoon.

Grosjean racked up the most laps of the day with 107, although Mercedes completed the most miles of the day overall.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/audi-sauber-works-partner-2026-entry/10390546/
DATE: 2022

Audi announced its entry on the weekend of the Belgian GP in August, but it declined to name its partner team, despite it being clear for some months that Sauber had landed the deal.

Sauber has also confirmed that Audi will buy a stake in the company, although no details on the timing of the purchase or the size of the shareholding have been given.

Sauber noted: “This partnership will bring the team to new heights, guaranteeing at the same time the long-term future of the company – an entity that boasts a committed workforce, one of Europe’s leading wind tunnels and world-class motorsport manufacturing facilities.”

As previously announced, the team will continue to compete under the  name in 2023.

It is expected to revert to its Sauber identity for 2024 and 2025 after the. The team will continue to use  power units for those interim seasons.

In a rare public statement, main shareholder and chairman of the board of Sauber Holdings Finn Rausing indicated that he will remain involved, saying: “Audi is the best strategic partner for the Sauber Group. It is clear that we share values and a vision, and we look forward to achieving our common goals in a strong and successful partnership.”

Sauber team principal Fred Vasseur admitted that representing the German marque was a “great responsibility” for the organisation.

“The partnership between Audi AG and Sauber Motorsport is a key step for our team as we continue to make progress towards the front of the grid,” said the Frenchman.

“To become Audi’s official works team is not only an honour and a great responsibility: it’s the best option for the future, and we are fully confident we can help Audi achieve the objectives they have set for their journey in F1.”

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Audi board member Oliver Hoffmann, the man responsible for the F1 programme, indicated that Audi’s use of the Sauber wind tunnel for its World Endurance Championship LMP1 programme and other projects had played a role in the decision to go with the Hinwil outfit.

“We are delighted to have gained such an experienced and competent partner for our ambitious F1 project,” said Hoffman.

“We already know the Sauber Group with its state-of-the-art facility and experienced team from previous collaborations, and are convinced that together we will form a strong team.”

Audi's F1 project leader Adam Baker added: "Sauber is a first-class partner for the use of the Audi Power Unit. We are looking forward to working with an experienced team that has helped shape many eras of Formula 1 history. Together, we want to write the next chapter starting in 2026.”

Stefano Domenicali, President and CEO of F1, added: “It is great news to hear that Audi will have a partnership with Sauber for their entry into Formula 1 in 2026.

"The combination of those two names is a very exciting prospect for our sport. It highlights the strong momentum that Formula 1 has and the belief in our strategy to further grow and enhance the sport while delivering on our sustainability plans to be Net Zero Carbon by 2030 with advanced sustainable fuels in the cars in 2026.

"We look forward to seeing their progress over the coming years and the car on the grid for the team’s first race.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/audis-f1-plans-take-shape-as-announcement-looms/10356808/
DATE: 2022

But amid growing indications that confirmation of their intentions for 2026 is now imminent, Audi may be the first to reveal its plans and could do so as early as this weekend's Belgian Grand Prix.

After months of discussions to sort out a partner team, it is understood that an agreement is now in place between Audi and the Sauber team, which currently competes under the  moniker.

Audi had originally negotiated with  about a takeover of team shares, having been initially put in touch with the team and its owners through former McLaren F1 racer .

"I established the contact with McLaren," said the DTM boss. "McLaren would have been a candidate as a partner for Audi in Formula 1."

But the talks between McLaren's owners, the Bahrain sovereign wealth fund Mumtalakat, and Audi ultimately came to nothing. In the end, Sauber emerged as the preferred candidate following an evaluation of Aston Martin and .

Discussions have now advanced with Sauber, after its owner Finn Rausing previously  to sell the team for 350 million euro at the end of 2021.

It was suggested that Rausing insisted on the continued existence of the Sauber Group at the Hinwil site and the preservation of jobs, and also demanded a further 250 million euro as a contribution to the team in order to be sure the team was in safe hands.

In the end, Andretti walked away because of terms it could not accept.

With Audi, Sauber is getting a strong partner who, according to sources, is prepared to pay more than Andretti for a smaller percentage of the company. Rausing is set to remain on board as a minority owner.

There is also the promise to further develop Sauber as a factory team, very similar to how the Sauber-BMW partnership worked between 2006 and 2009.

It's interesting to note that current Audi CEO Markus Duesmann, who has pushed the brand's F1 entry, was head of development at the BMW-Sauber team between 2007 and 2009 and still knows the Hinwil operation from back then.

Motorsport.com understands that the plan includes continuing to build the chassis in Hinwil, where one of F1's most modern wind tunnels is still located.

The powertrain is to be created at Audi's site in Neuburg and thus developed and produced on German soil.

This is unlike VW Group sister company Porsche, which will develop large parts of its engine at Red Bull's Milton Keynes powertrains division.

Like Porsche, Audi is to set up a new company for its F1 project. There are suggestions that Adam Baker, whom Audi hired at the end of 2021 for "special tasks," is set for a managing director role.

Baker previously worked at BMW, where he first met Duesmann, and at the FIA.

Another obvious candidate for the post would have been the current head of sport Julius Seebach, who as CEO of Audi Sport is more experienced in higher management than Baker.

However, it is understood that Seebach is about to be replaced and has been linked with a newly created position in Audi's development department.

Red Bull Porsche delay

While Audi's plans are making good progress, a public announcement about Red Bull and Porsche's tie-up has not happened as quickly as some had anticipated.

For weeks, it was explained that delays in finalising the 2026 engine rules were cited as the reason that neither car company wanted to commit until they were sure about the regulations.

Red Bull motorsport advisor Helmut Marko told Motorsport.com at the Hungarian GP: "VW's board decision is that if the technical regulations meet the criteria, then they have the mandate to go into Formula 1.

Photo by: Rainier Ehrhardt

"Purely formally, however, these new regulations do not yet exist. The FIA president is supposedly going to put it to the vote in an email ballot soon. Only then will it officially start."

The engine rules were subsequently signed off on 16 August, but there is still no indication of when an official communication from Red Bull and Porsche will be made.

However, a recent document published by anti-cartel authorities in Morocco relating to the Porsche/Red Bull tie-up has indicated that it will wait until 30 August for any feedback from interested parties before giving its green light to the plan.

It is possible that only then will Porsche feel everything is in place for it to go public with its ambitions.

Additional reporting by Sven Haidinger

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-2022-tech-review-how-alfa-romeos-short-and-light-c42-helped-its-revival/10413077/
DATE: 2022

But an early headstart on its 2022 car, allied to it being helped out by F1’s aero development handicap system, did just the trick in allowing it to impress a few times this season.

The C42 was one of the shortest cars on the grid and also one of the first to make the minimum weight allowed in the regulations.

These factors, coupled with some other smart design choices, set the team in great stead for climbing back up the constructors' standings.

Photo by: Erik Junius

A great shot of the Alfa Romeo C42 on the stands in the garage as the team prepared the car for the first race of the season.

Steering wheel for the Alfa Romeo C42

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

The back of Valtteri Botta’s steering wheel, highlighting his use of a single left-handed clutch paddle, which has the finger socket design to help him modulate the clutch.

Alfa Romei C42 rear detail

A poke around under the covers of the C42 shows how the power unit is packaged, the radiators installed in the sidepods and gives a glimpse of some of the rear suspension details.

Valtteri Bottas, Alfa Romeo C42

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

A lower downforce rear wing solution was introduced in Saudi Arabia to match the high-speed nature of the circuit. General changes included a new rear brake duct layout and revisions to the rear suspension fairings.

Zhou Guanyu, Alfa Romeo C42

Photo by: Steven Tee /

A new sidepod package arrived at the Emilia Romagna Grand Prix, with an emphasis on the rear of that bodywork.

The section had previously been undercut and quickly tapered into the coke bottle region, but the update did away with this methodology, incorporating a ramped section that merged into the floor below.

Alfa Romeo C42 floor detail

Building on the aforementioned changes, Alfa Romeo made further optimisations to its sidepod package at the Spanish Grand Prix.

Alfa Romeo Racing C42 rear detail

A look at the high downforce rear wing employed in Spain, along with a good view of the rear brake duct assembly without the drum in place. Note how the disc has been faired in and the pipework used to deliver cool air and extract heat generated by the caliper.

Alfa Romeo Racing C42 brake drum detail

Similarly, at the front of the car, we can see how the team opted to fair in the brake disc to help isolate the airflow’s passage and heat being generated, given the much larger drum for 2022.

Alfa Romeo Racing C42 nose and front wing detail

A top-down overview of the C42’s front wing which was modified in the outer section. Also note the team’s use of the slot gap separator brackets, which are angled in order to marginally influence the airflow’s direction.

Zhou Guanyu, Alfa Romeo C42

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

A shot of the rear wing with the DRS deployed shows the central slot gap bracket which prevents the wing from closing too far.

Valtteri Bottas, Alfa Romeo C42

Photo by: Simon Galloway /

A low downforce rear wing was deployed in Baku, with the front wing’s upper flaps trimmed to help balance downforce front-to-rear.

Steering wheel for the Alfa Romeo C42

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

The C42’s steering wheel with the various buttons, switches and rotaries used to control the various power unit and chassis functions.

Zhou Guanyu, Alfa Romeo C42

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

Flo-viz paint on the C42 here as the team looks to gather some visuals on the flow structures around the front suspension, chassis and sidepods. Also note the team introduced an inlet for driver cooling in the nose tip at Silverstone too.

Alfa Romeo Racing C42 front detail

Alfa Romeo approached the front brake duct inlet in a fairly unique way, with a slender but tall inlet framed top and bottom with metal wirework to prevent tyre marbles and other debris from collecting in those sections.

Alfa Romeo C42 sensors detail

The team mounted an array of cameras and sensors on the C42 in Hungary as it looked to collect data on a new floor that it introduced. Note the use of the flow diverting strikes on the upwash scrolled section of the edge wing.

Alfa Romeo C42 technical detail

A great shot of the C42’s metal bib section and the Bellville sprung mechanism employed to keep the bib at an optimum height during a range of ride height conditions.

Alfa Romeo C42 rear wing Belgian GP

In order to help reduce drag, whilst maintaining the necessary downforce, Alfa Romeo chose to cut a triangular section across the span of the endplate and flap junction for the Belgian Grand Prix.

Alfa Romeo C42 rear wing detail

Retaining the endplate and flap junction cut out that it used in Belgium, the team went one stage further in its quest to reduce drag for the Italian Grand Prix, trimming the upper flap’s trailing edge.

Alfa Romeo C42 front wing nose

The team overhauled its front wing design for the Japanese Grand Prix, altering the ratio of the static and moveable flap portion of the wing.

Alfa Romeo C42 front wing comparison

This side-by-side comparison illustrates just how much more of the flap was made adjustable on the new design left, providing the drivers with access to a more versatile setup window and catering for the team's aerodynamic needs. Changes were also afoot with the most outboard section of the flaps and their juncture with the endplate (inset, yellow highlight), whilst the trailing edge cutout was also removed (blue arrow).

Alfa Romeo C42 technical detail

A change to the floor’s leading edge profile was made for the United States Grand Prix, with the floor attached to the side of the chassis, whereas formally it created a channel to feed airflow up from the bib section, which narrowed the available tunnel entrance section.

Valtteri Bottas, Alfa Romeo C42

Photo by: Sam Bloxham /

The outer floor fence was modified in Mexico, with a chamfered edge applied to the ramped section that would not only have an impact on the external airflow but also that on the underside of the floor.

Alfa Romeo C42 rear wing cutout comparison

Alfa Romeo had two main endplate cutout solutions during 2022, one you’d consider to be more traditional (inset) and another with a deeper cutout towards the base, both of which are used to manage the tip vortex depending on the load being generated by the wing.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-fred-vasseur-ferrari-alfa-romeo-exit-confirmed/10410737/
DATE: 2022

is expected to announce soon that the Frenchman is heading to Maranello as the replacement for Mattia Binotto,

even before Binotto’s departure was confirmed.

The 54-year-old joined Sauber in July 2017, shortly after the new shareholders - led by billionaire Finn Rausing - took over the then ailing organisation.

He has thus presided over the team for five and a half seasons, the last four under the name of main sponsor . In 2022 the team finished sixth in the world championship, its best result for a decade.

As CEO, , who will enter F1 under the new power unit rules in 2026.

The appeal of running Ferrari rather than leading Sauber through three interim seasons before the full Audi takeover proved irresistible to Vasseur.

In a statement the team paid tribute to its departing boss, making it clear that he will be missed.

Vasseur departs with the good wishes of the Sauber organisation behind Alfa Romeo's F1 operation

The team said: “Frederic Vasseur leaves a team bolstered by new partners, a growing workforce and with a bright future as the works team for a manufacturer in the not-too-far distance.

“He leaves as a friend, a mentor, a boss that could extract the best out of his charges.

“And, as we enter a new chapter of the history of our team, we will miss the smiles and jokes that would accompany him as he did the rounds in our Hinwil HQ.

“Merci, Fred, et bonne chance. We’ll be cheering for you wherever you go next.”

Vasseur stressed that he has enjoyed his stint with the team, suggesting that it was good preparation for his future job.

“As I prepare to bring my adventure at Alfa Romeo to an end, I can look back fondly at these six years together,” he said. “I owe a debt of gratitude to every single employee of the team, as they are the ones who got this team back on their feet and climbing the ladder of our sport.

“I am proud of the job we collectively have done as a team and a company, and even more so of the strong foundations we have laid for what’s to come next. But what I am the proudest of is the people that made this all possible, which in time have become friends.

“This team will always feel like home, and I’ll be rooting for it wherever I go. I have learnt so much during my stint as a CEO and team principal and I feel each day has equipped me for what is to come.

“I know Alfa Romeo will keep going from strength to strength and I’m looking forward to seeing them compete at the business end of the grid in the next few years.”

Vasseur led Alfa to sixth in the constructors' standings this year

Sauber chairman Rausing acknowledged the contribution that Vasseur has made to the team.

“Frederic gave our team six years of inspiring leadership and hard work, helping rebuild our company and our team,” said the Swede. “He was able to encourage every one of us into giving our best and the increasingly good results we have enjoyed are testament to the quality of his performance at the helm of the team.

“He was the first to believe in our project and he leaves a team in a much stronger, healthier position than when he arrived, with a bright future ahead of us, which is all that could have been asked of him.

“I am sure I echo everyone in the team when I wish Fred every success in his future endeavours.”

The Alfa/Sauber organisation has not yet announced who will replace Vasseur.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alfa-sacrificed-abu-dhabi-f1-race-on-aston-hold-up-tactics-in-p6-battle-/10403016/
DATE: 2022

The Sauber-run team claimed the much-coveted sixth place position in the standings, albeit level on points with Aston Martin, thanks to a countback to Valtteri Bottas' fifth place at the Emilia Romagna Grand Prix bettering any finish from either  or .

Having struggled with pace relative to Aston Martin at the Abu Dhabi finale, and a precarious four points ahead going into the round, Alfa elected to sacrifice its own results to frustrate the British squad to preserve its grip on sixth - worth around $10-12m in added prize money.

Although Stroll stopped first of the four drivers, Alfa hence used  to undercut the long-running Vettel, while  went even longer on the hard tyre to stay out ahead of Stroll prior to the Canadian's second stop.

Bottas explained after the race that his long, "defensive" stint on the most durable rubber was employed to "play with the green cars" and interrupt their aspirations of moving forward.

"I think today ultimately we didn't have that much pace but also my strategy was very defensive so just always trying to be good towards the end of my first stint, and when the green cars come through we wanted to play with them," Bottas said.

"In the end it was too close with the points but I'm so glad we got it.

"[The hard strategy was] to wait for the Astons to stop and come through, and then we make their life difficult."

Zhou explains that the team's stops were also timed to provide  and  with a clearer pit window to stop into to ensure they could come out ahead of the Aston Martins.

Once Vettel stopped and began to make his way back through the pack, the Chinese rookie put up a stern defence to baulk Vettel's progress in his final F1 race.

This ultimately helped to ensure that Vettel, despite his best efforts to pass  at the close of the race for ninth, was unable to finish higher than 10th.

"I mean, the whole race was quite clear with the situation - if we can't beat them on track then we sacrifice the positions to let the McLarens and Alpines clear that window," Zhou divulged, when asked by Motorsport.com about the team's strategy.

"So that was the case today. I stopped early, while the tyre was still fresh, but then we could be undercut by Sebastian and Lance, then we try to basically hold them up as much as possible to make a more clear window for others.

"I think it was very important that we were able to achieve that. We really gave everything out there today, and really happy for the team.

"Considering where we were in qualifying, Valtteri had to really try something extremely risky, a gambling strategy, while on my side I was trying to just stay up there and see if we can make a difference.

"After lap one, we always kept very similar position and that's the best we could do.

"So in the end, it was super close, equal on points but yeah, I knew that every small margin makes a difference. It's really important for the team for next year."

Additional reporting by Adam Cooper

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/abu-dhabi-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026193/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sao-paulo-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026150/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/bottas-keen-audi-arrival-sauber/10395066/
DATE: 2022

Last month, as its power unit manufacturer in 2026, when a new engine formula will kick in.

After Alfa Romeo's sponsorship deal with the Hinwil team lapses at the end of 2023, it is expected Audi will gradually start ramping up its involvement as it becomes a shareholder in the Swiss outfit.

For current  driver Bottas, who joined the privateer after five years at , driving for a bona fide works team again is naturally an enticing prospect.

When asked in Mexico if he is hoping to stick around at Sauber when Audi jumps on board in 2026, Bottas said: "Why not? I'm 33 years old, so I hope that I'm going to be there."

Bottas explained that Audi's entry will help keep both him and the team motivated in the coming years.

"I would say yes, because if you look at the big picture, I think it's huge. There's big potential for Sauber with Audi.

"No doubt they want to succeed in the future. They want to do well and show they're serious.

"So, I think for any driver on the grid, especially for me now being already part of Sauber, it would be very interesting to be part of that project. I definitely think it's possible."

Valtteri Bottas, Alfa Romeo F1 Team

Photo by: Andy Hone /

While Bottas conceded Alfa Romeo needs "a lot of work" to become competitive, he hopes extra Audi backing ahead of its official 2026 entry can help the team bridge the gap to the frontrunners.

"There's still work to do, no doubt. That's the fact. But it's not that far, you know, the facilities are there," the Finn pointed out.

"Some facilities, some machinery can be better compared to a championship-winning team. And the amount of people in the team is still a bit less than at least what I saw last year.

"But with the support of a manufacturer like Audi I see no reason why it wouldn't be possible.

"I think [the timeline] depends on how much Audi is going to support this team before they officially come as a manufacturer.

"Obviously, nothing changes for next year. We're still with Alfa Romeo. And of course, we hope that we can have a better car than this year.

"But then I think it depends on the support from 2024 onwards.

"If [Audi] are willing to support, if they're really helping a lot and supporting and if the power unit is good for 2026, which is impossible to predict at the moment, then why not."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/bottas-mexico-could-have-been-different-story-with-soft-tyre-final-stint/10393958/
DATE: 2022

Bottas managed to pick up his first point since the Canadian Grand Prix in June by  on Sunday, but had looked set for a bigger haul after lining up sixth on the grid.

Bottas dropped to eighth at the start, but managed to keep ’s  at bay through the opening stint before making the switch to hard tyres on Lap 39.

Bottas was not only undercut by Ocon, who had made the same tyre switch seven laps earlier, but he also lost places to  drivers  and  through the final stint, Ricciardo having gone on a late charge with softs.

The Finn came under late pressure from  and , both of whom also went from mediums to softs for the final stint, but managed to hold on to P10.

Bottas, who on Wednesday was announced for the , said his race proved to be “difficult, especially the second stint with the hard tyre” as he experienced similar struggles to other drivers who also ran hards for the second half of the race.

"I just couldn’t get the tyre to work, especially the front axle,” Bottas explained. “It was below the working range all the time.

“I think if I could do the race again I would for sure go for the soft tyre [in the final stint]. There were some cars that were really flying on the soft tyre.”

Fernando Alonso, Alpine A522, leads Lando Norris, McLaren MCL36, and Valtteri Bottas, Alfa Romeo C42

Photo by: Carl Bingham /

Bottas explained that he tried the hard tyre in FP1 and that it had felt “half decent”, although he admitted it was “easy to say afterwards” he had taken the wrong decision on which tyre to use.

But he took some comfort from scoring the point on a day when Aston Martin failed to make any further inroads on  in the fight for sixth in the constructors’ championship.

Aston Martin’s recent surge of form had seen the gap fall to just three points ahead of Mexico, only for Bottas’s result to give Alfa Romeo a bit of extra breathing room with two races to go this year.

“With another tyre it might have been a different story,” he said.

“At least it’s one point. I think it’s been 10 races since I last scored points. So that’s something, and at least we scored more than Aston.”

Asked if Alfa Romeo’s pace in Mexico was thanks to its late-season upgrades or simply more track-specific, Bottas expressed his optimism about keeping the form going.

“We’ll see in the next races,” he said.

“We were in Q3 in Austin and should have been in the points, so I hope it’s going to be like this for the last two races. I see no reason why we shouldn’t be there."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mexico-city-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026105/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/bottas-aiming-high-from-surprising-sixth-on-mexico-f1-grid/10392717/
DATE: 2022

The  driver split the two works Ferraris in qualifying, outpacing the troubled  for a spot on the third row of the grid.

A good result on Sunday would be hugely valuable in his team’s fight with Aston Martin for sixth in the championship, which the Hinwil outfit leads by just three points.

Bottas showed good pace from the start of the Mexican weekend, taking seventh in FP1 and eighth in FP3, the two sessions not compromised by Pirelli 2023 tyre testing.

However, even he hadn’t anticipated doing even better when it mattered in qualifying.

"Yeah, then it's a pretty good day,” he said when asked by Motorsport.com about beating Leclerc’s works car.

“And surprising. I mean, we've seen from the beginning of the weekend that we seem pretty strong, and I felt comfortable.

“So we thought with a good quali should be able to fight for seventh place, but to split the Ferraris is an added bonus.”

Valtteri Bottas, Alfa Romeo C42

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Bottas had no definitive explanation for why the Alfa is so strong in Mexico City, especially given that the works Ferraris have experienced a loss of power at the high-altitude venue.

“It's a good question,” he said. “We didn't add anything from Austin to this track. But I think the layout - I was thinking about it before the weekend, that it could be good for our car.

“And it seems to be really good for our car. I think all those slow speed corners, we seem pretty strong. Even over the kerbs through the chicanes we seem good, and the car feels quite nice over the kerbs.

“So I think it just suits this track, and then with the starting set-up we had for the weekend we've only had to do small fine tuning. So we really started the weekend on the right foot with a set-up and been able to build on that.”

Bottas acknowledged that he always goes well at the track: “It feels like it's been normally good track for me overall. I think I had a pole last year. So naturally, that just tells that it's one of those tracks that some drivers like.

“I like this one, smooth surfaces, low grip. So it's definitely a bit different way of driving, which I don't mind.”

Bottas believes he can maintain position on Sunday, given that there are no obviously quicker cars behind - other than Leclerc’s , which may be compromised by ongoing engine issues.

Asked if he can stay sixth, he said: “I think so, that's the target.And it seems like from all the long runs this this weekend, and even the Pirelli tests, that we seem to be on the good end of the midfield in terms of race pace.

“So it's good to see. So hopefully, we can more or less maintain the position. That's important because it's a good opportunity, as Aston is now way back.”

Given how important the points are for his team, Bottas agreed that he can’t be too aggressive on the first lap.

“Yeah, it's a calculated risk. I've had many bad luck lap ones this this year. So even for my confidence would be good to have a good start and lap one, so I think target is at least try and maintain the position. If you can gain, obviously yes, but without huge risk.”

Alfa Romeo team principal Fred Vasseur said that the car has been quick in recent races, even if grid positions didn’t fully reflect that.

"I think it was already the case the last two or three events,” the Frenchman told Motorsport.com.

“But between having the potential, and being P6, there is a margin. And the last two or three events were wet sessions, or we missed Q3 for nothing. I think the pace was okay in Austin and Suzuka.

“And I think from the beginning of this weekend, we were on it. From FP1, we are doing a good job, and then you can fine tune the situation.”

Vasseur said the result was a boost for the Swiss team just days after the 2026 Audi deal was announced: “It's encouraging for the people at home and on track. It's a mega huge push.

“They worked a lot. We are still 250 less people than our competitors, and it means that when we have to bring updates they are pushing like hell, and I'm more than pleased for everybody.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/united-states-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026062/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/bottas-alfa-romeo-f1-early-mileage-losses-bite/10387061/
DATE: 2022

started the season as one of the leading midfield teams, regularly fighting with  and , but has since slipped back to sixth in the constructors’ standings.

The Swiss-based team is now facing pressure from Aston Martin in the fight for P6. Aston Martin has outscored Alfa Romeo 29-1 since the Canadian Grand Prix in June, narrowing the gap to just seven points with four races to go.

Speaking to Motorsport.com in a sponsor event for Hyland in Austin on Wednesday, Bottas admitted it had been “challenging recently” for Alfa Romeo, and that it was “disappointing” to have lost the early-season consistency.

“You get to taste that consistency in the beginning of the year and having good points all the time, but when you're not having those, you definitely start to miss those moments,” said Bottas.

“And also, we still have to secure the sixth place in the constructors’. So that means we still need to score.”

Valtteri Bottas, Alfa Romeo C42

Teammate Zhou Guanyu picked up Alfa Romeo’s only point since Canada by finishing 10th at Monza, while Bottas has been hindered by some poor reliability in races.

An issue on his power unit caused Bottas to retire in Hungary, while a fuel system issue forced him out of the race at Zandvoort two races later. He also failed to finish at Spa after getting caught up in a collision with .

Alfa Romeo struggled with reliability through pre-season testing, leaving it behind for mileage compared to many of its rivals.

Although it was able to bounce back with its initial pace, Bottas felt that the lack of winter mileage had

“I think many of those failures came down to reliability, because we had pretty poor winter testing mileage,” said Bottas. “Once you don't get the mileage to prove certain parts, etc, at some point, they might fail. And that's what happened.

“But I think we've learned a lot. And we've already really switched the focus with the car development for next year. So we're relying quite a lot on that.”

Bottas was confident Alfa Romeo had “learned our lessons” from its 2022 struggles and was “going to be strong again” next year, but hoped it would carry through the entire season.

“We're still a smaller team than some of them, some others, but not for long,” he said. “I think we're growing as a team, we're getting more more people.

“So I think in the years ahead, we are going to be on the same line with with anyone.

“That's why I feel like, in the future, whether it's next year or the year after, we have a great opportunity to be in close to the top.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/japanese-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization-9026031/9026031/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-reserve-drivers-all-teams-backup-2023/10437681/
DATE: 2023

Formula 1 teams are well underway preparing for the forthcoming 2025 campaign, which will consist of 24 grands prix beginning in Melbourne on the 14-16 March.

The grid is set and all but two teams -  and Aston Martin - have changed their driver line-up, meaning this year will have a new look.

But it is not just the full-time competitors that play a crucial role, as a team’s back-up driver does as well.

Reserve drivers act on standby during grand prix weekends and may contest one should a team’s regular driver be unable to. This happened at the 2024 Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, for example, as .

F1 teams also employ simulator drivers, who test changes made to the car so that everybody can gain a greater understanding of the machine.

So, who are the drivers supporting their team behind the scenes for 2025?

Liam Lawson served as Red Bull’s reserve driver at the start of the 2024 season, but then .

. This means Red Bull is currently without an official reserve driver, though Lawson’s former team-mate Yuki Tsunoda is expected to step into the role.

Meanwhile, Rudy van Buren will continue as Red Bull’s simulator test and development driver after joining in 2023.

Rudy van Buren, Red Bull F1 Simulator Test and Development Driver

Photo: Red Bull Racing

, but in a reserve driver capacity having been ’s team-mate from 2017 to 2021. The 10-time grand prix winner left for  - now  - having been replaced by George Russell, who was previously at  after graduating to F1 as a Mercedes junior.

But the Swiss outfit opted for an all-new line-up this year ahead of its Audi takeover in 2026, leaving Bottas without a drive. So, in December 2024 Mercedes announced that the Finn was back with the Silver Arrows replacing former reserve Mick Schumacher, who is part of Alpine's Hypercar programme.

Sharing the role with Bottas is the 2023 F2 championship runner-up Frederik Vesti, who started the position last year having become a Mercedes junior in 2021.

, having been part of its academy between 2015 and 2018. He initially left to become Renault’s development driver in 2019 before making his F1 debut with Alfa Romeo in 2022 but, like Bottas, he was dropped by the Hinwil-based outfit for this year.

He will work alongside , who was Zhou's predecessor at Alfa Romeo. The Italian became Ferrari’s reserve driver in 2022 and Giovinazzi also competes for the historic brand in the World Endurance Championship, where he won the 2023 Le Mans 24 Hours.

Regarding Ferrari’s development drivers, that includes Arthur Leclerc who joined in 2024. He is the younger brother of full-time Ferrari driver  and is joined by  and Davide Rigon.

Zhou Guanyu, Ferrari reserve driver

McLaren is yet to announce who its reserve drivers for 2025 are, with previous incumbent . But Arrow McLaren IndyCar driver Pato O’Ward has previously contested F1 practice sessions for the Woking-based team, so it is likely he will continue his commitments.

McLaren also employs , who spends a lot of time in the team’s simulator where he works closely with the engineers and regular drivers.

Aston Martin has retained Felipe Drugovich and  as its reserve drivers for 2025. Previously the team was able to call on the reserves of engine partner Mercedes in case of an emergency but in more recent years, Aston Martin has introduced its own reserve drivers.

While Vandoorne joined from Mercedes in November 2022, Drugovich has graduated from the Aston Martin driver development programme and the 2022 F2 champion has worked with the squad since 2023.

Felipe Drugovich, Aston Martin F1 Team

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Jack Doohan will contest his first, full campaign in F1 this year after serving as Alpine’s reserve driver in 2024 before replacing  at the Abu Dhabi season finale.

As a result, Alpine has announced Paul Aron, Ryo Hirakawa and Franco Colapinto as its reserve drivers for 2025.

Aron had a stellar F2 campaign last year, finishing third to champion Gabriel Bortoleto and Isack Hadjar, while Hirakawa has joined from McLaren where he held a similar role.

There is more hype around Colapinto though, who made his - relatively unexpected - F1 debut in Monza 2024 having replaced Logan Sargeant at . He impressed immediately finishing 12th before taking points at his second grand prix in Azerbaijan with eighth.

But Williams had already announced  as ’s team-mate for 2025, so there was no full-time seat for Colapinto. As a result, , where a spot may soon open up for the young Argentine given Doohan’s unsecure future.

Williams does not currently employ its own reserve driver, as previous incumbent Colapinto has left for the same role at Alpine after impressing for the British squad in his nine-round stint last year.

Jamie Chadwick, meanwhile, serves as its development driver after joining Williams in 2019 which is the year she clinched her first of three W Series titles.

Jamie Chadwick, Williams

Hadjar served as Racing Bull’s reserve driver last year, when it was known as . But following Lawson’s promotion, Hadjar will partner Tsunoda for his rookie season leaving Racing Bulls currently without an official reserve driver.

Considering its close ties with Red Bull though, the Faenza-based squad can call on whomever is in the Red Bull pool.

Zane Maloney and Theo Pourchaire have left the Sauber set-up since acting as reserve drivers last year. The Swiss outfit is yet to confirm who will support its all-new line-up of  and Bortoleto before the squad morphs into the Audi works team in 2026.

Haas is also yet to announce its reserve driver for 2025 having promoted previous incumbent Bearman to a full-time seat at the American squad. One option could be Pietro Fittipaldi though, as the grandson of double world champion Emerson joined the team in 2019 and in that time has started two races due to ’s crash at the 2020 Bahrain Grand Prix.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/bottas-new-2024-sauber-f1-car-concept-looks-interesting/10554803/
DATE: 2023

In its last season under the  name, the Swiss outfit slumped from sixth to ninth in the world championship, scoring only 16 points.

Bottas says the team realised that it had reached the end of the line with its 2023 car and that an all-new approach was needed as a revised design team starts to gel under technical director James Key.

“I'm glad that it's over now,” said the Finn of the past season. “And next year, everyone starts from zero again. There's been many, many changes in the team lately. And I think positive changes.

“Also, the concept of next year's car looks interesting. So in that sense, I do have hopes. But now we need to need to work hard for that and try again.

"The main thing is we need a new car. And it needs to be different. So that's, I would say the biggest take we take from this year, clearly we've hit the end with this car's development, we just haven't been able to find any anything big. So the whole concept needs to be different. That's what we've learned.

"From what I've seen, I'm happy, because there are differences. I think that's what we need. So many question marks, it's still early days. But at least we're seeing progress, and the last few weeks have been actually quite productive at the factory."

Photo by: Simon Galloway /

Valtteri Bottas, Alfa Romeo F1 Team

Bottas says that the Key’s input has been a major boost for Sauber.

“I feel like with some new people we have, including James, there starts to be stuff happening,” he said.

“He has obviously lots of knowledge even from this year's , so for sure there's good information coming from different people. So that is good to see. I think that's what we needed.”

Reviewing the team’s disappointing season, Bottas noted that not finishing last in the constructors’ championship was at least one positive.

"I think the races that we had the pace for the points, I think we managed to get them,” he said.

“So ultimately the issue was we didn't have the pure pace this year to be in top 10. We didn't have a quick enough car. So that's the name of the game.

"It's not the last place, which is good, but it's a small step, but still not as good as last year. I mean, it was a difficult year. We were hoping to finish better. But that's what it is now. And now we need work for the future.

"We tried everything we could, but it was a difficult year. So lots to learn from, and now we need to look ahead, and stay motivated and stay confident."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sauber-and-audi-on-right-route-despite-dismissals-and-f1-delay-rumours/10501800/
DATE: 2023

This weekend's Belgian Grand Prix marks a year since Audi formally announced its 2026 F1 entry initially via a works powertrain programme before confirming a Sauber buyout.

But Audi has since moved to replace CEO Markus Duesmann, who presided over the entry.

There is also widespread speculation that the manufacturer's engine programme is running months behind schedule. Audi did announce in June that a one-cylinder mule engine has been tested and a full specification unit will be ready to run on the dyno for the start of 2024.

Alongside these potential obstacles, Alfa Romeo-branded Sauber has struggled this season despite gaining its major Audi backing to finally spend up to the cost cap.

Asked by Motorsport.com to clarify the state of the 2026 programme, Sauber managing director Alessandro Alunni Bravi defended the operation and said that no change of plan is required.

The Italian lawyer said: "First of all, I'm happy to hear that the Audi project is behind the shadow. We don't have this kind of information [let out in public].

"So, concerning our programme, the programme is on the right route. We are working hard to develop the team in these next two seasons.

"We know there are constraints linked also to the financial regulations but we are, with Andreas Seidl [Sauber CEO] addressing all our weaknesses and trying to seek all the best opportunities in the market to bring quality into our team and to develop our facilities.

"So, there is no change for us, nor for Audi."

Alessandro Alunni Bravi, Team Representative, Alfa Romeo F1 Team

Photo by: Alessio Morgese

Ex-McLaren team principal Seidl has moved to hire his former Woking colleague and technical chief James Key, who was sacked earlier this year by Seidl successor Andrea Stella.

The  set-up, which enjoyed a strong start to the ground-effect rules in 2022 owing to its initially lighter car, finished sixth last year but has now dropped to ninth.

Discussing the dismissal of Duesmann - a decision that follows the overarching Volkswagen Group removing boss Herbert Diess - Alunni Bravi said: "The Audi project is based not on a single individual but is a project for all the company that has been, I would say, welcome at any level. I think that there is no change.

"We work as a team, all together, to be ready for 2026. This doesn't mean that the challenge is easy.

"We have such strong competitors; we need to be really humble and to work on a daily basis at our best because the competition is extremely high for everybody, and especially in the PU manufacturer side.

"I think that the competition in 2026 will be really, really strong. So. we just need to be focused on our job and nothing has changed with the departure of Mr Duesmann."

Oliver Blume, CEO of Porsche during its F1 interest that culminated in failed talks with Red Bull, has been given the top Volkswagen job.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/audi-buys-minor-stake-in-sauber-f1-team-ahead-of-2026-entry/10426102/
DATE: 2023

Audi announced in August last year that it will be entering F1 in works capacity on the advent of new engine regulations in 2026, amid a boom in the sport’s popularity across the world.

This was followed by the news in October that Sauber, which currently operates as  Racing, will become its “strategic partner”, and use its Hinwil facility to build the chassis.

At that time, Sauber revealed that Audi will purchase a stake in the team at some point, but no further details had been forthcoming on this front since then.

Now, Sauber has confirmed that the German manufacturer has gone ahead and bought an unspecified stake in the Swiss-based team, as per the plans previously outlined.

Sauber described it as an “important milestone” for Audi’s much-anticipated debut in F1.

"The Sauber Group is pleased to announce that, as per the plans outlined in October last year, Audi acquired a minority stake in the Sauber Group in January 2023," it said in a statement.

"This is an important milestone on the way to Audi’s entry in Formula One, scheduled for 2026, for which the Sauber Group will be the German brand’s strategic partner."

Valtteri Bottas, Alfa Romeo C42

Photo by: Michael Potts /

While Sauber’s Hinwil facility, which included a state-of-the-art wind tunnel, will serve as an important base for Audi’s F1 programme, the German marque is currently building a separate factory at Neuberg in Germany to develop the power unit.

The 3,000-square-metre building will house test benches for the hybrid engine and is an expansion of the site that was previously the home of Audi’s wildly-successful LMP1 programme in the FIA World Endurance Championship.

The extension of the site is expected to be completed by the first quarter of 2024.

By that year, Sauber will operate in F1 under its own name, with its agreement with Alfa Romeo coming to an end after the end of the forthcoming season.

It will continue to use  engines until 2025, before morphing into the works Audi F1 squad the following year.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-tech-review-alfa-romeo-slide/10561345/
DATE: 2023

Alfa Romeo side details

teased everyone with its launch render at the start of the season, as the floor edge featured a series of winglets, a design that would never actually see the light of day.

Alfa Romeo C43 front suspension comparison

The C43’s front suspension featured a chassis blister around the front suspension elements to work better with the fairings and improve flow downstream.

Alfa Romeo C43 rear detail

Detached from the car we’re able to better see the detail of the rear crash structure, brake duct winglet, rear suspension and rear wing.

Alfa Romeo C43 technical detail

The C43 presented without the sidepod and engine cover bodywork exposes the packaging of the radiators, the power unit and many of the other ancillaries.

Alfa Romeo C43 technical detail

This shot of the floor left unattached to the car gives us a nice view of the floor fences and the geometry of the forward section of it.

Alfa Romeo C43 technical detail

The view from inside the front brake drum, with a tightly packaged brake disc fairing and the caliper mounted at the rear of the assembly.

Alfa Romeo Racing C43 detail

A similar arrangement at the rear of the car, with the fairing enclosing the brake disc and the caliper mounted in the lower half.

Alfa Romeo C43 technical detail

The novel blade-style airbox arrangement on the C43, with four inlets built up around the blade.

Alfa Romeo C43 technical detail

The forward portion of the floor is stepped to give more height at the inboard end, as can be seen by the contour line.

Alfa Romeo C43 technical detail

A close up of the rear floor cutout and the tab-like wing that juts out from beneath the floor.

Alfa Romeo C43 technical detail

An overview of the C43’s steering wheel with the various rotary switches, buttons and paddles that allow the driver to control the various functions of the power unit and chassis.

Alfa Romeo C43 front wing and nose comparison

Changes were made to the nose and front wing architecture early-on, with an elongated nose tip and mainplane redesign introduced at the Australian Grand Prix.

Alfa Romeo C43 technical detail

Alfa Romeo’s high downforce rear wing at the Monaco Grand Prix, with metal inserts in the endplate cutout to help reduce flexion, whilst teardrop-shaped flap pivots are also employed. Also note the semi-detached shark fin that allows more freedom for the cooling outlets on the cover’s spine.

Alfa Romeo C43 technical detail

Overview of the floor edge and downwash ramped-style sidepod solution

Alfa Romeo C43 technical detail

Overview of the C43’s rear end with the beam wing in a bi-plane configuration, with a slatted forward mounted upper element and more loaded lower element. Also note the intricate Kiel probe arrays mounted beside the diffuser to capture data for the team.

Photo by: Filip Cleeren

Alfa Romeo Racing C43 technical detail

The low downforce rear wing configuration features a sawn-off tip section and central mounting pillars.

Alfa Romeo Racing C43 technical detail

In the side view, it’s clear to see how the mainplane’s leading edge has also been set back when compared with the endplate, while the pillar’s swan neck design sees them chamfered as they meet the mainplane.

Alfa Romeo Racing C43 front wing detail

A new floor was introduced at the United States Grand Prix, featuring an elongated edge wing, much like many of their rivals had already unveiled. A scrolled forward section gave way to a twisted central section with an opposingly angled section that was connected to the winglet, which had previously sat in the rear cutout.

Alfa Romeo Racing C43 detail

A top-down overview of the front wing shows how the elements taper at the nose end of the assembly.

Alfa Romeo C43 rear detail

Alfa Romeo added a swage line to the outer face of their rear wing endplate at the Qatar Grand Prix, which swoops more steeply than some of the versions seen elsewhere up and down the grid.

Here’s the list of the components that Alfa listed as having changed in the car presentation document prior to each race.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/bottas-in-denial-for-five-years-at-versus-hamilton-at-mercedes/10560646/
DATE: 2023

Following the shock retirement of newly crowned F1 world champion , Bottas left  to join  for 2017. He remained alongside Hamilton until a 2022 move to Sauber (then branded ).

During their time together, Hamilton won 50 grands prix and four drivers’ titles while Bottas scored 10 victories.

To keep competing against his team-mate, Bottas now believes that he had to be in a state of denial.

Speaking exclusively to Motorsport.com, the Finn said: “You have to be in denial.

“I was in denial for almost five years because every year, I wanted to get back to the season and then fight for the title and I had to believe in myself.”

Bottas added that it was only during his final 2021 season at Mercedes - after which the team made room to promote junior driver  from Williams - that he came to terms with losing out in the head-to-head.

He continued: “It was only when I knew that I was leaving the team then that I noticed that I was a bit more fine with certain things.

Photo by: Simon Galloway /

Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes, 1st position, and Valtteri Bottas, Mercedes, 3rd position, celebrate on the podium

“I was allowing to accept some of those kind of things. So, for sure, in your career, you go through those kind of things…

“With Lewis, only in the last year could I accept to myself that in equal machinery over a period of a full season, I really struggled to beat him and that he's probably better in certain areas. As a racing driver, to admit that to yourself, is hard.”

Bottas supposed that  might now be “going through a similar experience” against dominant Red Bull stablemate and three-time world champion .

When Bottas was asked if he needed everyone at Mercedes to keep telling him that he could beat Hamilton, he replied: “No, it was quite open meetings.

“Everything is based on facts and what they can see through the data on those things. You could see the average difference in qualifying or race pace. Nothing was avoided.

“I have no regrets because it was a tricky situation for me because I was every year on a one-year contract.

“I knew that if I wanted to fight for the title, I needed to be buried in this team. If I started to be an arsehole, I would lose my job pretty easily. They could always get someone else.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sauber-recruitment-drive-will-continue-ahead-of-audi-f1-entry/10560129/
DATE: 2023

After a financial squeeze led to downsizing, the team employed just 220 people prior to the takeover by Finn Rausing in 2017.

With new investment in place, the team grew in subsequent years under the  name, and by this season the headcount had more than doubled on Rausing’s watch.

The expansion process received extra momentum when Audi’s takeover was confirmed in August 2022, although many of those who have been signed up remained tied to rivals via gardening leave.

Alunni Bravi stressed that finding the right people was the priority ahead of building up the facilities for them to use.

"We have undertaken an important recruitment plan,” he said. “Of course, the result of the plan will be more visible in the next few years, because with every new appointment normally you have a gardening leave period to join a competitor.

“So we started with the recruitment. Of course, we will ramp up our structure, both in terms of head counts, in terms of technology, in the next few years because all the investment that needs to be made and put in place requires also a bit of time.

“I always said that, financially speaking, there was no problem. We started our journey in 2017 when I joined the team with Fred Vasseur. We were around 220 people, and we have reached more than 500 people this year, and we will take a step in terms of headcount also next year.

Photo by: Audi Communications Motorsport

Audi CEO Markus Duesmann during the Audi press conference at Auto Shanghai 2023

“But it's a process that takes time, and each year there is a plan to expand our departments, our facilities, and of course, our staff.”

Regarding Audi’s role in that process, he said: “I will say that there is a normal dynamic between the two shareholders, where all the investment plan for the future until 2030 at least is in discussion.

“And we are just working according to the governance in place. Of course, the governance will change according to the different steps in terms of acquisition that Audi will take. This is normal, as in any company where you have two shareholders."

Like other midfield teams Sauber will benefit from an increased capex allowance that will allow it to spend more than the frontrunners on improving its facilities, a strategy agreed by F1 and the FIA in an effort to close up the field.

“We are the first ones to know that there is a step, a big step, that is needed in each single area,” said Alunni Bravi. “But we know that all the steps that we are doing, all the investment that we are doing, will lead us to a stronger position in terms of the package that we will be able to design, in terms of how we operate, in terms of processes.

“Don't forget that we are working within a regulatory framework where there is a fixed perimeter in terms of cost cap, for the capex. We cannot do like it was in the past when a car manufacturer came and joined F1 and made massive investment in one or two years. We need to act according to the rules.

“And these extra allowances for capex that have been approved in the F1 Commission and by the FIA will allow us to accelerate that investment plan.

“But as always this is a technology sport. So we need time. We need to take the right decisions. And this is why [Sauber CEO] Andreas [Seidl] is fully focused, of course, on the transformation process as our leader of the team to allocate the budget when it’s necessary, when it’s more performance-related.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alfa-romeo-focused-on-wec-switch-after-ruling-out-staying-in-f1/10554343/
DATE: 2023

The Italian manufacturer’s title sponsorship deal with the Sauber team came to an end at last weekend’s Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, following a successful six years together.

And while  was linked with a possible tie-up with Haas instead, and did speak to the American-owned outfit, negotiations never got very far.

Now, Alfa Romeo CEO Jean-Philippe Imparato has explained to Motorsport.com that, with his company determined to remain in motorsport, a move to WEC is now the most likely route.

Asked about the Haas situation and why things did not progress, Imparato said: “We weren't interested in aiming to do a copy/paste operation in the style of the one done with Sauber.

“It would have led us to become one of those who puts stickers on bodywork. It would no longer have been new and we wouldn't have been part of a story.

“We started looking at something else, quickly reaching a conclusion. Alfa Romeo has nothing to do with the world of rallying, the Stellantis group already has two brands involved in Formula E, and so the focus has shifted to the WEC, a world in which Alfa Romeo has lived in the past wonderful experiences."

Photo by: Martin W. Spetz

1974 Alfa Romeo 33-TT-12

Imparato has explained that no final decision has been made about how Alfa Romeo would make its step into WEC though, as it was currently evaluating the most cost-efficient way of doing it.

“The WEC world is experiencing a moment of great interest, and when there is a lot of euphoria it becomes difficult to understand what level of investment is necessary to aim for the highest goals,” he said.

“We saw in 2015 [in LMP1] that uncontrolled cost escalation ultimately rebounds, so we took some time to understand how this will all play out.

“I believe it is correct to have a clear picture and know precisely what you are facing before launching into a project."

One possibility could be to tie-up with Peugeot, which is part of the same Stellantis group.

“Obviously it's one of the scenarios we evaluated,” added Imparato. “There are already houses within the Stellantis group whose sports programmes are in close contact, for example DS and Maserati in Formula E.

“When we return to the track we will do so with the support of Stellantis' motorsport projects, and as Peugeot is already present in the WEC obviously co-operation is more than possible. Then perhaps the two projects may have parallel paths in other aspects, but in the end we are in the same family.

“However, I would like to clarify that at the moment we are not yet able to confirm anything. We will do so when we have completed the planning and evaluation of the investment."

Although Alfa Romeo’s F1 sponsorship with Sauber was forced to end early because of the team’s takeover by Audi, Imparato said he had no regrets about their many years together – as he said the return on investment was incredible.

“I would say [it was] the best investment in history,” he said. “We can say that in terms of image return, for every euro we spent we received 20 back.

“At the same time, we are a little sad because we are leaving a team that has embraced our brand for six years, and with which we have had an extraordinary relationship."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/naked-bottas-calendar-raises-150000-for-charity-despite-his-mums-concerns/10553776/
DATE: 2023

The calendar resulted from the interest in prints Bottas sold last year and was put together by photographer Paul Ripke.

An initial run of 10,000 was quickly sold out via , so more were printed.

Bottas has also admitted that his mother was initially confused by his decision to strip until she was assured that the aim was to raise funds for charity, specifically prostate cancer research.

Bottas took to social media on Thursday to reveal how successful the project had been.

"Thank you so much for all the support in November," he wrote. "With the donations and with the calendars we have together raised a substantial amount for Movember - meaning WE have really helped and will affect and save many people's lives.

"Final figures to be calculated in the next days, but we are talking around $150k of funds raised!"

Explaining how the calendar project came about, he added: "Last year, when I launched that one photo in Aspen, it was quite popular.

Photo by: Jake Grant /

Valtteri Bottas, Alfa Romeo F1 Team

"And we actually did raise quite a bit of funds. Because I do quite a bit of stuff with Ripke, he's a good friend, the photographer, and then we started to joke about the idea, 'Imagine, if there's the full calendar.'

"And then closer to November, Movember month, we started to think actually, that's something we could do, something really, really good.

"And we decided that yeah, let's do it, but for charity. It's mainly for prostate cancer research, so I think it's for a good cause."

Expanding on that choice, he said: "Movember is focusing on that quite a lot. I know some people who have had close people to them who had issues with that kind of thing.

"And I think with men, as well, like Movember, focusing on men's health, many people do get quite afraid of speaking about those kinds of things. And I went like all out, showing myself, trying to be an example. As a human body, you don't need to be shy."

Asked about the reaction of friends and family the Finn conceded that he'd had to convince his mother that it was a worthwhile exercise.

"Well, I did get a message from my mum," he said. "Like, 'What is this?' She doesn't really understand English either that well, and she saw some of the videos that I posted, and she was quite confused and protective. Like, 'Are you sure that's the path you want to go?'

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

"So then I explained the charity thing, and so it's fine. I've had questions, people asking like, why did you do that? Like why do you want to show your ass?

"But then when I explained the charity aspect and people kind of get it. And we had so much fun, you can imagine, making that, taking those pictures.

"We had this art gallery on Monday [in Las Vegas] and people who came there, they had no idea what was going to happen.

"And they were so confused when we started to show every print, step-by-step, they were like, 'What's happening here?' But then they kind of got the idea that, okay, it's funny and for charity. It was good fun."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-teams-reveal-special-las-vegas-gp-liveries/10546666/
DATE: 2023

With interest in F1 having been fanned by the return of grand prix racing to Las Vegas, several teams have announced plans to race in different colours.

Last week  revealed it was switching to a red-and-white colour scheme that paid homage to what it had raced with during the 1970's – the last era when F1 enjoyed such a boom in the USA.

Ferrari SF-23, Las Vegas GP livery

Now,  has revealed the third of its 'Make Your Mark' campaign liveries that has seen it race in different liveries for each of the three USA GPs that have taken place this year.

The Las Vegas switch is the first time that the entirety of the RB19 has been taken over by new paintwork, which has a purple base and gives the impression of yellow and pink neon lights flashing down the car.

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

Red Bull Racing RB19 Las Vegas livery

has revamped its car to feature a livery that features a design making use of the famous 'Welcome to Fabulous Las Vegas' sign across the engine cover and rear wing endplates. It also features vibrant blue Williams lettering along the length of the engine cover.

Williams FW45 Las Vegas GP livery

is also running a one-off livery for the Las Vegas weekend as the result of a collaboration it has with skate and streetwear brand Palace.

As well as the official suits of drivers  and , plus the team's pitcrew, being reworked, the team's A523 car will run in tweaked colours.

Speaking about its collaboration, Palace said: "We are so hyped to be kitting out BWT Alpine F1 Team's car, drivers and pit crew for the Las Vegas Grand Prix: a street race at night in one of the most mental and beautiful places on Earth."

Alpine A523, Las Vegas GP livery

was the next team to unveil its special livery at a presentation at the Aria Hotel on Wednesday, revealing an all-black livery with references to Vegas' gambling industry.

"Inspired by the Entertainment Capital of the World, this special livery is a nod to one of Las Vegas’s most famous activities, with special touches on its standout red, black and gold playing cards," the team said.

Alfa Romeo C43 Las Vegas GP livery

also showcased a special colour scheme in Las Vegas, incorporating a striped design on engine cover and sidepods. The team will also run the same livery in the Abu Dhabi finale next week.

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

Scuderia AlphaTauri AT04 Las Vegas livery

F1 is returning to Las Vegas for the first time in 40 years, with a new track that runs through the downtown area.

There is a long straight that runs along the Strip, while the circuit will also work its way around the iconic Sphere that has grabbed interest in recent weeks.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alfa-romeo-all-new-car-f1-2024/10546131/
DATE: 2023

The team, which will revert to its Sauber name from next year ahead of it becoming Audi in 2026, has had a challenging campaign with its C43 car not having delivered the step forward hoped for.

Drivers  and Zhou Guanyu have scored just 16 points between them and the squad is currently ninth in the constructors' championship, just four points ahead of bottom outfit .

As part of an evaluation that it has done at its Hinwil base following the arrival of new technical director James Key, the team has now decided that there is no point trying to eke further gains from its current design next year.

Instead,  will embark on an all-new direction with its C44 that it hopes will address the weaknesses that it has endured this season.

Alfa Romeo team principal Alessandro Alunni Bravi said that Key had been instrumental in helping the team lean towards doing something different for 2024.

"He started the first week of September, so he's also contributing to next year's car, to our C44 car," explained Alunni Bravi.

Zhou Guanyu, Alfa Romeo C43, Valtteri Bottas, Alfa Romeo C43

"We reviewed completely the project, together with him, and thanks to his experience we went through an in-depth analysis of all the areas of the car, taking decisions.

"So, next year's car will not be an evolution of this year's car, because we think that there are some limits in this concept that we cannot exploit further. So, we will really have a completely new car from chassis to suspension, everything, all the areas.

"Of course, it's easy to identify the problems, but then you need to be able to fix them. So, we are working hard, the group is growing.

"We have new appointments that are joining, and that will be able to contribute also to next year's car but the answer will be given to all of us next year in Bahrain."

Alunni Bravi said he has no doubts that drivers Bottas and Guanyu were able to produce everything that Alfa Romeo needed if they were given the right equipment.

"If we are able to provide a performing car to our drivers, there they can deliver," he said. "But it's really a matter of giving them everything that they need to perform.

"There is no issue with our drivers. They are experienced, and we have seen that they can contribute with points.

"But the matter is to have a stronger car with more performance in any track condition, with every tyre temperature, so all the elements. This has been our weakest point. Too many up and downs and not consistent throughout the season."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/bottas-slow-turns-and-thin-air-at-f1-mexico-gp-key-to-alfa-romeo-promise/10539983/
DATE: 2023

Bottas and team-mate Zhou Guanyu both made Q3 and qualified ninth and 10th respectively, putting them in a strong position to score crucial points in the tight battle amongst the four teams at the bottom of the constructors' championship.

The Finn showed good pace throughout the weekend, earning fourth place in FP2 on Friday, and then sailed through the first two parts of qualifying in fifth and seventh.

The 10-time F1 grand prix winner was actually disappointed with the final run that led to his ninth place on the grid, but it was the team's best qualifying result since another outlier performance in Hungary, where Zhou and Bottas started fifth and seventh.

"I think coming into this weekend, I was always expecting more than from Austin," said Bottas. "It seems like since the first practice we've been within top 10 all weekend in terms of pace.

"That's why it's really good to get both cars in Q3, and only a little bit annoying thing today was on my last lap, I had a bit of a lock-up in the last sector, so there was a bit of time lost. But still, we take this result because it allows us to fight for some good points."

Asked why the car was so competitive in Mexico, he said: "I think this track is just the kind of slow speed nature, it still fits our car a bit better.

Photo by: Sam Bloxham /

Valtteri Bottas, Alfa Romeo C43

"Also, the drag effect is less, because our car is quite draggy. So here obviously, with thin air it is less [of a] penalty.

"I think set-up wise we've been able to run the car in a better place than Austin, because it's less bumpy here. So those things combined."

Bottas acknowledged that the team has to convert the qualifying result into points given the tight battle from seventh to 10th in the F1 world constructors' championship, especially with the  of  starting fourth.

"Really important now we have the  cars behind us, to get some points against them tomorrow would be really good," he said. "And of course try and get Daniel because he's in a good place."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sauber-expects-a-lot-from-new-hire-key-during-audi-f1-transition/10535146/
DATE: 2023

The Swiss outfit, which is set to revert to the Sauber name for two seasons before formally becoming Audi in 2026, is undergoing a major expansion under CEO Andreas Seidl.

Former  technical director Key started work on 1 September, and attended the Japanese GP in order to get an overview of race weekend operations.

Meanwhile erstwhile head of trackside engineering Xevi Pujolar has been given the new role of F1 racing director as the team continues to evolve.

Alunni Bravi stressed that the process of change will be a gradual one, with the results not always obvious from the outside.

"We don't like to speak too much,” he told Motorsport.com. “We have said from the beginning of the year that our development plan started in January 2023.

"We started the recruitment, we have appointed James Key and other key profiles that we will announce from time to time.

“And of course, we are trying to fix all our weaknesses. Sometimes you can see immediate results. Some other times, you need to wait a bit.

"But we are confident that we have a good foundation. And of course, we need to improve, as the competition is very tight.”

Valtteri Bottas, Alfa Romeo C43

Photo by: Andy Hone /

Alunni Bravi noted that Key is looking at all areas of the Hinwil team, and not just those under his immediate control.

“He's pushing very hard not just for the project of the 2024 car,” said the Italian. “But also to address our weaknesses, and with his experience also to give the right direction for the current developments. And also to manage our package in the very best way during the Grand Prix weekend.

“We expect a lot from James. He has been with us in Suzuka, so I think it has been very important for him to attend the races, and also to see how we operate on track.

"James is a technical director, but he has a lot of experience in different roles within the technical department.

“So his contribution will be important for next year and for the future, helping Andreas in this transformation process of the technical department and the other areas of the team.

“His contribution is not just important in the design office, but also giving the team the right structure on track.

“This is a work that we are doing together with Xevi Pujolar. Maybe there are some changes that have not been visible, but we are trying to improve on a race-by-race basis.

“We need to improve, this is clear. We are not where we should be.

“We don't build a works team in one day. Our journey has already started, and we need to see progress in the next two years.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-alfa-romeo-fight-williams-p7/10533952/
DATE: 2023

After a frustrating run with just one point in eight weekends, Alfa Romeo made a significant step in Qatar, where  claimed eighth and Zhou Guanyu ninth.

The six points moved Alfa up to eighth place in the championship table, ahead of Haas, leaving it just seven points behind .

While Williams has made it clear that it has switched its focus to the 2024 project, its rivals Alfa and  have continued to bring new parts to the track, while Haas is putting a lot of faith in a major upgrade package that will be unveiled in Austin this weekend, adding an extra dimension to the battle for the minor placings.

“We are convinced that we can fight for P7 until the end of the season, based on our decision to keep developing the car,” Alunni Bravi told Motorsport.com.

“But of course, we need to execute each race weekend a perfect race like Qatar, both from the team side and the driver side.

“Qatar was a good reward, it's been good for the team, for the confidence and for our drivers, after a tough period.

“But the championship is still long, five races with two other sprint sessions. So still room for improvement. We need to look ahead of us to find extra performance in the next race.”

Guanyu Zhou, Alfa Romeo

While the Haas upgrades have attracted more attention due to their comprehensive nature, Alfa has quietly been changing its car race-by-race, with a revised beam wing in Qatar serving as a finishing touch to the recent run of updates.

"There is not only one way to develop the car, it depends also on what you find in the wind tunnel,” said Alunni Bravi.

“I think that every team has some developments, but then you need to understand if there is anything that brings that extra performance that is necessary to do the step.

“We decided at the beginning of the year to really push with the development, and we will keep developing the car until the very last race. Sometimes you can have a major upgrade, like we had in Singapore for instance, with the new floor.

“But then after a big upgrade, we always try to optimise the package. In Qatar also we completed the package introduced in Singapore with a lower rear wing flap that was necessary to have a good performance on the medium/low-speed corners, but not to be penalised too much with the top speed that still remains one of our weakness points."

Alunni Bravi believes that the car will be competitive in Austin, but he sees opportunities to score elsewhere as well.

"I think that for us we have seen that where we have a low-efficiency track and we need to have a higher downforce level, our car suits better these conditions,” he said. “So we think that Austin will be in our favour.

“Mexico will be a bit more difficult because I think there, Williams and AlphaTauri will be really strong. And then, of course, Sao Paulo and Abu Dhabi, we have always seen really interesting, races and a bit unpredictable.

“Las Vegas is new for everybody. We don't know what we can expect. But at Miami our package was competitive.

“I think what will be important will be the mindset, the approach of the team and the drivers, what we will find with the new upgrades, and of course, we need to have both drivers driving a solid and flawless race, because each point will count at the end of the season. And we don't need to make any mistakes on track.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alfa-romeo-confirms-zhou-alongside-bottas-for-2024-f1-season/10519966/
DATE: 2023

While Bottas continuing with the Swiss outfit was a formality, there had been some question marks over Zhou.

However, the Chinese driver has now been signed for a third year with the team, which is expected to revert to the Sauber identity for the next two years, ahead of the full transition to the Audi name in 2026.

Current FIA F2 championship leader Theo Pourchaire will also remain in his reserve and simulator driving role.

"The decision to continue our journey with our driver line-up unchanged is testament to the investment we have made in our project," said team representative Alessandro Alunni Bravi.

"Nothing in F1 changes overnight, and we have taken a conscious decision to focus on stability and to keep building our team up together as we embark on an important period of transition.

"Valtteri and Zhou are drivers of known talent and skill, and they work really well together. They are well-matched and can push each other.

"Valtteri has taken a real leader's role within the team, pushing us all to give our best. Zhou has made impressive steps forward in the last two years and we expect him to continue on this trajectory in 2024.

"Now the baton is back to us – we have to give both drivers a good car and put them in the best conditions to perform."

Zhou Guanyu, Alfa Romeo C43

Zhou's confirmation means that he will finally get a chance to race in his home country next year after COVID led to the Shanghai event's absence from the calendar from 2020 to 2023.

"Signing again with the team is always a great feeling, especially when we know how things are shaping up," he said. "I am proud to be part of  and grateful for their trust.

"I have been working extremely hard since day one and there is an incredible level of motivation to keep doing so every day forward.

"My relationship with Valtteri is really good, and we are working closely together and with the team to push everyone forward.

"I am also very excited about the opportunity to finally race with my team in China, in front of my home crowd. It will be a great moment and I'm proud to be able to share it with all those who have supported me."

Bottas insisted that good progress is being made by the team, even if it has struggled for performance on track this year.

"I have a feeling we have an exciting journey ahead of us, so I am happy and grateful to be able to look forward to 2024 knowing how the team is shaping up," said the Finn.

"There is a good atmosphere within our squad, I get along with Zhou and we both push each other hard to improve.

"There is an impressive amount of work going on behind the scenes, in Hinwil and beyond, and now that the line-up is set for next year, we can focus fully on improving, starting this weekend in Singapore already.

"Every step forward we make is a step forward for this year and next, so we are motivated to give everything we have every time we're trackside or at the factory."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-las-vegas-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp1/1123648/
DATE: 2024

And with that, it is time to head off for a break. We'll be back at 5:45am GMT ahead of FP2 but for now, here is the full session report from the first outing of the weekend. As ever, thanks for your company!

Lewis Hamilton, Mercedes F1 W15

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

It should be noted, even Hamilton's session best time was roughly three seconds off the pole lap of 12 months ago, highlighting the evolution that is yet to come in the following sessions.

By the time FP1 came to a close, both the air and track temperatures had dropped by three degrees. This fall is expected to continue into FP2, which takes place at a similar time to both qualifying and the race.

"That was the first session we've had since Toto Wolff's comments on Hamilton's "shelf-life" emerged - the Mercedes boss has since moved to explain what he meant - but for the seven-time world champion that was a response that will have had him smiling under his helmet, while his face flashed up the Vegas night as it shone from the Sphere"

"I know it was only first practice, but that was another unimpressive run for Sergio Perez. His best time is only good enough for 10th place on the time sheets. Time is running out for him to prove he deserves to retain his seat at Red Bull next year. The other aspect is that Red Bull need him to start delivering points if they are to claw back their way into contention to win the constructors' championship."

Completing practice starts on the grid, Verstappen has massively overshot the grid box. Were that to happen in the race, he would be in hot water for that one.

Hamilton's final lap was 0.396s up on Russell. He has 0.953s over Norris in third and all other drivers are over a second back.

And Hamilton moves to the top with a 1m35.001s. With no one else on a hot lap, he will exit the car as the fastest man in the session.

Hamilton is into the final sector of his final effort, as he goes purple in sector one.

The chequered flag flies and Sainz is the first driver to take it.

"So far, so good for the new FIA race director, Rui Marques. Not major incidents like we saw last year so he has been able to easy himself into the big seat left vacant by Niels Wittich, who left the role after the Sao Paulo Grand Prix. We have Toto Wolff in the press conference later, so it will be good to get his thoughts on the shock departure and what he makes of Marques."

Hamilton goes top, but Russell is faster still with a third consecutive flying lap, moving to a 1m35.397s.

And we're about to see what Hamilton can do with soft, as he begins his first timed effort on the compound.

As the click ticks below five minutes, Russell returns Mercedes to the top with a 1m35.619s.

"It is another cold one in Vegas tonight, as soon as the sun disappears the temperature really does drop. While the FP1 action might not set pulses racing, race organisers will be happy to come through unscathed after last year. The fans who have come out for the first running are also making the most of it...maybe just to warm up!"

We're seeing a decent number of drivers in the pits now, we're probably going to see some warm tyres bolted on for a round of closing flying laps to end the session.

Hamilton is the only driver not to have tried soft tyres yet in this session.

10 minutes remain in FP1.

Up from 14th to sixth for Verstappen, but he remains 0.807s off the pace of Norris.

Verstappen reports a "connection issue" with his steering wheel, complaining that the radio "went on by itself". A peculiar problem, for sure.

McLaren has shown its hand for the first time this weekend, with Norris the first driver below 96s, putting in a 1m35.954s, as team-mate Piastri improves to fourth, sandwiching the Ferrari drivers.

Hamilton and Russell are out again but on medium tyres.

But he's immediately forced back by Ferrari team-mate Sainz who hammers in a 1m36.218s.

The first change at the top for a while, as Leclerc now puts in a 1m36.430s to better Hamilton by 0.497s.

And we've had confirmation of a five-place grid penalty for Bottas, after the Sauber driver has had a fourth energy store fitted to his car.

Yellow flags were briefly displayed again there - no explanation why quite yet.

On softs, Leclerc puts in a purple middle and personal bests in the other two sectors to move up to second, behind only Hamilton.

Magnussen is on it once again, moving up to third for Haas. This is the freedom of a driver knowing they aren't driving for their future.

"We have a voice but we don't have a vote," McLaren Racing CEO tells Sky Sports on the changing of the F1 race director. He hopes the move is a "step forward".

On the plus side, no drain issues to this point!

From 10th to third for Norris. The times have largely stabilised for the moment, but with another round of fresh rubber, the picture could all change very quickly.

Highlighting the pit entry issue, Albon has now been shown the same black and white flag as his Williams team-mate for crossing the white line.

"The pit entry line is almost impossible to see," reports Russell. With all the lines of the road, it is hugely difficult to pick out.

As per Chandhok's suggestion, a thick yellow line would clear up any confusion there.

An odd problem for Piastri here, as his McLaren refuses to switch off as his mechanics push the car back into the garage. It's eventually fixed, but as per the roll hoop lights, it was an electrical issue.

Currently, Mercedes enjoy a 1-2 led by Hamilton, with Leclerc leading a Ferrari 3-4. Championship players Norris and Verstappen are 10th and 9th respectively.

While the track is never going to fall completely silent during a session this weekend, half the grid have returned to the pits, resulting in a quieter track.

The first black and white flag of the weekend goes to Colapinto. Currently in 18th, he failed to follow the race director's event notes and crossed the white line on pit entry.

Proving how difficult the conditions are, Verstappen runs deep at the end of The Strip following a heavy lock up - his Red Bull screaming as it slid past the cameras.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-race-1123853/1123854/
DATE: 2024

and  will launch from the front row of the grid in Abu Dhabi as  looks to seal a first constructors' title since 1998.

, who secured McLaren's latest crown of any description with his maiden 2008 drivers' title, makes his final bow for  before his switch to , while , , ,  and  all start in F1 for potentially the last time.

The race gets under way at 13:00 GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-bahrain-pre-season-test-day-1-1121307/1121308/
DATE: 2024

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB20

Photo by: Steven Tee / Motorsport Images

Mercedes F1 W15 last flap

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

C3? We can see a few more than that! Mercedes opted for 25 sets of the medium tyre compound for the Bahrain test, more than any other team, having decided to take only two sets each of the C1 and C2. As the Bahrain track surface is so rough, the C3 will serve as next weekend's softest compound - so the team has already got an eye on the season opener.

Photo by: Jake Boxall-Legge

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Spot the inlets either side of the top of Verstappen's helmet. Red Bull's design department certainly wasn't relaxing over the winter.

Red Bull Racing RB20 detail

Photo by: Giorgio Piola

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-qatar-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1123762/
DATE: 2024

After handing victory in the Formula 1 Qatar Grand Prix sprint race to  team-mate  on the final lap,  has another shot at glory in qualifying.

Having repaid Piastri for his own sacrificial gesture in the Brazilian GP sprint, Norris will aim to underline his position as the faster of the papaya drivers by emulating the pace that enabled him to pip  to top spot in sprint qualifying on Friday.

But with Russell keen to strike back at McLaren after being frustrated by Piastri's defence in the sprint, the Las Vegas winner cannot be ruled out of the conversation for the penultimate pole position of the year.

Qualifying gets under way in Losail at 18:00 GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-las-vegas-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp3/1123670/
DATE: 2024

With that, we'll take a breather for a coffee break before firing up all over again for qualifying which starts at 6am GMT. Until then, go well!

George Russell, Mercedes F1 W15

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / Motorsport Images

What did we learn from that session ahead of qualifying? Well, Mercedes still appears strong and the track conditions will ramp up with every lap, so it could be a case of the last to set a lap time may triumph.

Oscar Piastri, McLaren MCL38

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar / Motorsport Images

So, a flurry of very late action to round out FP3 topped by Russell from Piastri, Sainz, Norris, Verstappen and Hamilton.

Anyway, the other 18 drivers minus Perez and Stroll do get to enjoy an out-lap, lap to the grid for a practice start and then an in-lap. Not much to learn, but it still sees the RBs almost collide as Tsunoda gets his braking wrong and nearly goes into the rear of Lawson.

Perez misses the opportunity to get out on track at the back of the car train, so he has to park at the end of the pitlane facing the red light. He's the only one to miss out and it was an odd one given he left a big gap to Russell ahead. He could've made it.

Stroll has come to a stop just outside the Venetian, as the car's red lights turn off so the marshals can recover the Aston Martin. The session will resume - for exactly 60 seconds to be precise.

Stroll's car totally switched off before he came to a halt and the red lights are flashing on his Aston Martin to indicate it isn't safe to touch yet. That could mean the session is effectively over with three minutes to go.

Not for long though, as a red flag is shown with Stroll parked at the side of the track with his Aston Martin smoking.

But just like that Verstappen is suddenly shuffled down to fifth as Russell goes fastest from Piastri, Sainz and Norris. The lap times keep on coming.

"The grip felt miles better," Verstappen reports on team radio. It certainly seems Red Bull has dialled in that car over the last hour.

Verstappen goes fastest of anyone with a 1m34.137s - 0.081s up on Russell. Problems, what problems?

Perez only manages 11th and 1.4s off the outright pace. Where does Verstappen stack up?

Verstappen has bailed out of his first push lap on the softs as Perez carries on. At the front, Russell takes over top spot again with a 1m34.218s.

Aaaaand there they are. Right on cue, Verstappen and Perez come out in formation and both on fresh soft tyres. Let's see what they've got ahead of qualifying.

There are 15 minutes left in FP3 but still no sign of the Red Bull drivers who haven't ventured out on the soft tyres yet.

After seeing so many empty seats for practice two, it is encouraging to see more spectators here for FP3. After asking around, it seems the locals are not bothered about practice, unlike some of the more-established markets. Organisers say they expect a full house on Saturday, so that's where their focus is. It does make it valid to suggest that perhaps, in order to increase ticket sales, Vegas should be selected as a location for the sprint races. At least it would get the punters in.

Russell briefly takes top spot only for his team-mate Hamilton to reply with a 1m34.341s - once again it is looking promising for Mercedes in these cold and slippery conditions. Can it last until the sessions that really matter?

A switch to Hamilton's onboard camera shows he is pushing on the softs, as he goes fastest overall with a 1m34.565s.

Plenty of lap time improvements elsewhere, as Magnussen goes fastest with a 1m34.883s for Haas.

"This is... I can't drive it. I'm gonna crash. My left front is completely f******," Verstappen says, stating his case to pit. Red Bull duly obliges and calls in its driver.

"It's only getting worse. The car is undriveable," Verstappen reports on team radio. "Just a couple more laps please Max. Have to try and make the best of this," Lambiase replies to his driver. That came after a lock-up at Turn 5.

All 20 drivers are on track so suddenly there is a fair bit of traffic to navigate. Hamilton gets caught behind Alonso and then Tsunoda to restrict his opening time lap to 1m36.590s.

Norris and then Piastri take over at the top, the Australian posting a 1m35.759s for top spot in the McLaren 1-2.

Tsunoda blows that theory away with a 1m37.517s to go three seconds quicker than Verstappen. A high number of drivers are on out-laps now so this track will ramp up rapidly over the final 34 minutes.

Norris posts a 1m41.653s to slot into third behind both Red Bulls. Another warm-up lap or is the track really this much slower? Verstappen improves to go top but only with a 1m40.588s.

Norris has come out to be our yardstick, running on the soft tyres, as Perez and Verstappen both improve by a handful of tenths on their next laps.

Verstappen's opening effort is a leisurely 1m42.180s on the medium tyres. It seems hard to believe track conditions mean nine seconds slower than FP2, but let's see what others can produce before drawing conclusions.

Verstappen has had enough of the hanging around in the pits and nips out for the first time in the session, joined by team-mate Perez. Given all the trouble-free running yesterday - just the one short red flag caused by Albon stoppage in FP2 - it perhaps isn't surprising there isn't much track action early in FP3.

The hard tyre scrubbing continues for a handful of drivers, meaning it is just Tsunoda on track at present. And still just the one lap time overall which came from Perez earlier.

It may only be a practice session but Red Bull and Max Verstappen, in particular, will be keen to show improvement on their performance yesterday. We know the wing is an issue but with everything else now turned up to qualifying spec, let’s see where they actually sit in terms of pace.

Lawson, who has also joined the fun scrubbing in his hard tyres, says it is very slippery on track. The circuit reopened for public traffic between FP2 and this session, so it will be a case of rebuilding the grip levels and cleaning the racing line.

"Ah. Miles off," Perez says over team radio after his first timed lap of 1m41.941s. Given FP2's top times were in the 1m33s, he's made an accurate summation.

Both Aston Martins are also in action early while the rest stay comfortable and warm in the garages. Handy, as it is 14.9C air temperature and given the timing of the sessions that is the warmest it'll be all night.

Zhou nips out for an early exploration of the Las Vegas Strip, taking in the sights during his installation lap. He's joined by Perez and Hamilton, with the Red Bull driver sporting a visibly trimmed rear wing - it looks like someone's taken a bite out of it.

Off we go for final practice!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

While at Red Bull there is concern over its rear wing being unsuited to the demands of the Las Vegas track ,but that they are stuck with it for the weekend. .

Norris took second in FP2, just 0.011s off Hamilton, but . However, digging a little deeper, those concerns aren't strictly showing in the data - .

Lando Norris, McLaren MCL38

Photo by: Zak Mauger / Motorsport Images

The nightmare of manhole covers coming loose and delayed running were a distant memory, as the opening day of track action was a relatively straightforward and low key affair. Hamilton topped both FP1 and FP2 with Mercedes starting strongly in Vegas with Russell second in FP1 and third in FP2 too - .
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/former-f1-race-winner-bottas-labels-his-sauber-career-a-mistake-after-difficult-2024/10680852/
DATE: 2024

has given a damning assessment of his three-year stint with  following his rough finale at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.

After a collision with Haas' Kevin Magnussen ended his race at the Yas Marina Circuit prematurely, 35-year-old Bottas simply said his move to Sauber in 2022 “was a mistake,” before adding, “But we can’t predict the future.”

Speaking after the Abu Dhabi GP, Bottas noted how “everything started off well in the first year, but since then, it was [all] downhill.”

He explained how much of his decision to join Sauber following a hugely successful five-year tenure with Mercedes was down to the presence of then- Sauber team boss Fred Vasseur.

“There was a clear plan for targets for the three years, and also how to get there. But those plans and targets went into the bin when he left,” Bottas added, noting that they “had a good relationship.”

Not that Bottas wanted to lay any blame on Vasseur, admitting that “for a team principal, if you have a chance to go to , you go.”

Vasseur left Sauber in January 2023 to take over as Ferrari team boss following the departure of now Sauber chief technical officer Mattia Binotto.

Bottas revealed that once Vasseur’s departure to the Scuderia was confirmed, he did consider leaving the team, but was convinced by their incoming owners, German manufacturer Audi, to remain.

“I did have an option that if Fred goes, I can go, but I was then, once Audi was confirmed, I was always told I would be a pillar for the project,” he said, adding, “Well, that didn't happen.”

Valtteri Bottas, Stake F1 Team Kick Sauber

Photo by: Andy Hone / Motorsport Images

In their sole season together at Sauber, then called Alfa Romeo, Bottas was a top-10 regular, finishing a high of fifth at Imola and ending the year in 10th place with 49 points.

But once Vasseur departed for Italy, things quickly turned sour at the Swiss team. Bottas only reached the top-10 three times in 2023, dropping to scoring only 10 points for the season.

The situation then nosedived in 2024, with Bottas failing to score a single point for the first time in his career.

It wasn't just Bottas who struggled. Following six top-10s between 2022 and 2023, teammate Zhou Guanyu scored the team's only points of the 2024 season with an eighth-placed finish in Qatar. As a result, Kick Sauber finished the year last in the constructors championship.

Bottas and Zhou are both set to hit free agency this offseason, with veteran  and reigning F2 champion  taking their seats for the team’s final season before it takes on the Audi name.

As for Bottas, his future remains unconfirmed, although it has been reported that he looks likely to return to Mercedes as a reserve in 2025. But this may not be the end of Bottas as a starter in F1, with Cadillac set to join the grid in 2026 and Bottas admitting he has his eye on potential "opportunities" to return.

"That's what I hope so, and that's the target. I think there will be, there will be opportunities. But for that, I still need to keep driving, make sure I get some testing. Be involved," he added.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1123842/
DATE: 2024

The F1 season reaches a climax in Abu Dhabi with  and  set to battle it out for glory on the constructors' championship.

Off-track, a war of words between  and  has stolen the spotlight from drivers, including , who are either racing with teams for the last time or are making potentially their final appearance in the category.

topped first practice but picked up a 10-place grid penalty for a battery change, as  headed a McLaren 1-2 in FP2 and  repeated the McLaren dominance in FP3.

Qualifying starts at 2:00pm GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp3/1123837/
DATE: 2024

The F1 season reaches a climax in Abu Dhabi with  and  set to battle it out for glory on the constructors' championship.

Off-track, a war of words between  and  has stolen the spotlight from drivers, including , who are either racing with teams for the last time or are making potentially their final appearance in the category.

topped first practice but picked up a 10-place grid penalty for a battery change, as  headed a McLaren 1-2 in FP2.

Final practice gets under way at 10:30am GMT.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/video/mclaren-in-control-so-far-plus-horner-v-wolff-abu-dhabi-gp-friday-update/657399/?filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Formula+1+2024&filters%5Bchampionship%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=4660&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Btitle%5D=Sauber&filters%5Bteam%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=9
DATE: 2024

Alex Kalinauckas and Ben Hunt continue their coverage of the Abu Dhabi GP as they review both Friday practise sessions. Together, they discuss Christian Horner attempting to smooth over the war of words between Max Verstappen and George Russell, despite being called a "yapping terrier" by Mercedes counter part Toto Wolff. There's also a discussion on why it's advantage McLaren in the Constructors Championship fight as Alex reviews the long-run averages, Charles Leclerc's 10-place grid penalty after a battery issue was found in his Ferrari, and the latest on Sergio Perez's future as F2 title contender Isack Hadjar shared the Red Bull garage during FP1.
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/who-is-driving-at-the-2025-f1-abu-dhabi-post-season-test/10783370/
DATE: 2025

The 2025 Formula 1 competitive season may be over, but track activity is not: all 20 cars will be in action in  on Tuesday.

Each team will have one mule car driven by one or both race drivers, featuring Pirelli’s new range of rubber for the 2026 season, with slightly smaller and narrower tyres.

Even the tyres’ construction will be significantly different due to F1’s new technical regulations. When Pirelli asked all F1 teams to submit their predicted downforce levels for the end of 2026, there was much disparity between their simulations.

“It was more difficult for teams to estimate the performance of their 2026 cars at the end of the season,” Pirelli’s Mario Isola explained. “But we needed those simulations because we needed to design a product that is lasting for one year. If they just give us an idea of the car performance at the start of the season, and if we don't know what the rate of development will be, then it's difficult for us.”

Pirelli has therefore developed a broad spectrum of compounds, in case the real-world downforce levels turn out to be higher or lower than predicted by the teams.

The mule cars are 2025-spec machinery that has been modified to drop down closer to next year’s much lower downforce levels, though it cannot be fully accurate, partly because the 2026 cars will feature active aerodynamics.

“We have discussed some limitations with the teams, based on those first tests,” Isola added. “For example, we decided to avoid overloading the tyres on the straights. We were testing with a speed limit at 290km/h or 300km/h, because clearly they will have a lot less downforce on the straights next year. So we agreed on some methodologies for testing with the teams. Thanks to these methodologies it was possible to have feedback from the mule cars that was a little bit more coherent, more close.”

Valtteri Bottas, Mercedes, Mexico Pirelli Test

The test won’t change the 2026 compounds in any case, as the tyres have already been homologated for next season; it will simply help Pirelli choose the compounds for next year.

The Italian manufacturer has brought all compounds to Yas Marina Circuit except for the hardest dry-weather tyre, the C1, and the full-wet.

Meanwhile, the other 10 cars will be driven by rookies as part of the traditional end-of-season young drivers’ test. Only competitors with two grand prix starts or fewer are allowed to take part.

A number of 2025 race drivers will be skipping Tuesday's test.

This includes outgoing Red Bull racer  as well as his team-mate  and Mercedes' , with those teams giving all the track time to youngsters  and  respectively. Verstappen said he was “very happy” to miss out.

will field only , with  missing out.

will be the only test driver handling a mule car, with neither  nor  in action for Aston Martin – which is no surprise as far as the Spanish veteran is concerned, as he was looking forward to not driving the AMR25 any longer.

Ryo Hirakawa, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Many teams will field the same rookie as they did in Free Practice 1.

F2 frontrunners Dino Beganovic, Luke Browning and Jak Crawford will drive for the ,  and Aston Martin squads they are linked to.

Another F2 driver will be in action with his parent outfit,  at Alpine; the Enstone-based outfit will again loan out  to .

Now racing in IMSA with Cadillac,  reserve driver  will drive the Silver Arrow, while Toyota WEC driver and Haas reserve driver  will drive the VF-25.

Red Bull will entrust its protege  with the RB21 after the Japanese racer won the Super Formula championship. 2025 IndyCar runner-up and long-time  driver  will handle the title-winning F1 car.

Most importantly,  will gain important experience ahead of his graduation to Formula 1 with  in 2026.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-race-1126198/1126199/
DATE: 2025

I think that's a good place to leave it. Make sure to keep an eye out for our other post-race reaction, but let's give you one more Lando pic because this is his moment.

And who knows if he'll go back-to-back, because everything promises to look a lot different in the new era.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Michael Potts / LAT Images via Getty Images

Norris added on Sky: "I have to give it to Oscar, he's driven incredible. At some point he's going to get the better of me."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

More from an emotional Norris on Sky: "It's pretty cool. It's pretty insane. It's hard for me just to say it. I feel like I don't want to say it just yet, I'll wake up tomorrow and say it. It's been a season of ups and downs - has it been a perfect season? Absolutely not. Has it been by anybody? No.

"I'm happy I cried. Not many things in my life have made me cry, but today was one."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Rose / Formula 1 via Getty Images

It was all tears in parc ferme.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Andrea Stella, McLaren

Photo by: Bryn Lennon / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Sky now showing a montage of Norris' career up to now. It's mad where the time has gone!

World champion at the age of 26 in his seventh season of F1.

This is a very sweet interview with Lando's mum on Sky. Speaks of watching her grandchild in the Nativity play on Tuesday before flying to Abu Dhabi on Thursday. Mentions of Lando being in the garden driving the tractor as a kid, before Hamilton is caught in the media pen congratulating Norris.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Rudy Carezzevoli / Getty Images

Lando's mum on Sky Sports: "Emotionally drained, but very happy."

He'll be looking at a much bigger trophy soon...

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Rose / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

The Stella-Brown bromance!

Andrea Stella, McLaren, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Carlos Sainz: "Very happy for him. I think he's a great F1 driver. I think unbelievably fast.

"But with his particular way of going about life and things, as much as he's got criticised a lot during the last few years for being how he is, he's world champion and everyone can keep dreaming about being F1 world champion while he goes about his own way and does things his own way.

"So I'm extremely happy for him because he must have felt a lot of pressure over the last few weekends and he managed to pull it off."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

It's times like this where pictures speak a thousand words

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Brown going over to man he once compared to a villain from a horror film...

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando and his bosses.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Andrea Stella, McLaren, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Zak Brown: "If you beat Max and Red Bull, you've done a great job."

He then adds that Piastri is a "future world champion".

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Let's hear more from Lando.

"It's incredible. Pretty surreal. I dreamed of this for a long, long time - everyone does - a lot goes into a season like this. A lot of ups, a lot of downs, but none of that matters if you try to come out on top. The last seven, eight years I've been with McLaren, the last 17, 18 years of my life I've been chasing this dream.

"My best performances this year came when I needed them the most."

The moment Lando crossed the line to become champion.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

But queue the champagne, as Norris does his trademark celebration as a world champion for the first time!

Piastri lifts the runner-up trophy on the podium. It does look like he's trying to put on a brave face - a penny for his thoughts etc.

PR email of the day, dropped almost the second the grand prix finished. A street in Somerset, Lando's home county, will be named in his honour. It's almost like they had that planned and ready to go!

Lifts his head up to the sky as a Formula 1 world champion...

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Here comes the podium as world champion Lando Norris is first to greet the steps!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

The second Autosport young driver winner to win the F1 world championship after Jenson Button...

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Norris: "I've not cried in a while. DIdn't think I'd cry but I did. It's a long journey, a long journey."

Speaking of the championship, here is how the top three finishes:

1. Lando Norris - 423 points

2. Max Verstappen - 421 points

3. Oscar Piastri - 410 points

It's hugmania on that pit straight. Zak, Sainz, Russell, mechanics, family, all wanting a bit of Lando.

But the cameras did catch a nice moment when Norris' mum headed over to Piastri to console the other McLaren driver, who finishes this year third in the championship.

As is customary in Abu Dhabi, Norris is now doing doughnuts down the start-finish straight...

Verstappen: "I'm definitely not disappointed. I'm proud of everyone, we never give up."

A tearful Norris: "I love you guys, thanks for everything - you deserve it. I love you mum, I love you dad."

Camera pans straight to the McLaren garage, where Lando's mum is crying. These moments are the ones to savour...

LANDO NORRIS IS THE 2025 FORMULA 1 WORLD CHAMPION
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1126190/
DATE: 2025

That's us for now! We shall be back for race day when a world champion will be crowned...

Piastri: "The last lap in Q3 was pretty good, there's wasn't a lot left in that. Max has looked very quick in the long runs, let's see how much pace is a factor tomorrow."

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

Norris: "Max did a good job, so congrats to him. We did everything we could, my lap was pretty good so I'm happy. We just weren't fast enough today."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

Verstappen: "Of course incredibly happy to be in first, that's the only thing we can do."

Should he win tomorrow then he will match Hamilton's record of five Abu Dhabi GP victories.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

That also means Verstappen finishes the year with the most poles of any driver:

Verstappen - 8Norris - 7Piastri - 6Russell - 2Leclerc - 1

Max Verstappen is on pole for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, beating runner-up Lando Norris by 0.201s - sublime pace from the Red Bull driver, who even improved on his second lap without a tow.

Oscar Piastri is third but, I'm sure to Max's dismay, George Russell is only fourth. As it stands, Norris is world champion.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Two sectors down and neither McLaren driver is faster than Max...

Looks like there won't be any tow with Max going out before Tsunoda. Russell is eyeing one up from the world champion though and maybe Max will willingly give him one if it means getting the Mercedes man above Norris...

So it's Verstappen on provisional pole while team-mate Tsunoda is 10th. One does wonder what Red Bull does with Yuki in these final runs. Is it worth making him do a proper lap, or just give Max another tow?

Piastri splits the pair but Russell only manages fifth. Good job by Verstappen, but he needs more help from his rivals to push Norris down.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

It allows the four-time champion to set a 1m22.295s and it is four tenths quicker than Norris. Wow!

Though it must be said Lando was on used softs with Verstappen on fresh.

Tsunoda gives Verstappen a tow in sector two. Think that was planned don't you?

Here we are, the final quali session of the year and it's actually looking too close to call right now!

Antonelli had complaints about the rear but everything was clearly fine for team-mate Russell, who topped the session.

Verstappen was just 0.022s behind with Norris 0.074s off top!

George Russell, Mercedes

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

But that is Q2 now done and the bottom five is as follows:

Piastri was quickest in Q1 but he's survived a Q2 scare finishing just eighth and less than a tenth above the drop zone!

Quite a busy end to the session this and looks like Leclerc has now removed himself from danger, climbing up to a provisional fifth from 10th.

Well that's a busy pitlane! Everybody queuing up to get a final lap completed in these last four minutes.

Mercedes is looking good, but don't think Red Bull can rely on Ferrari to get in front of McLaren with Hamilton out in Q1 and Leclerc only 10th. The Scuderia didn't have a great FP3 either and Charles said the only positive of Friday was sharing the track with his brother Arthur.

Norris is loving that final sector because quite a few times now it's turned a good lap into a very good one. He's currently third and 0.074s off top with the fastest sector three time.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Not sure that's the record Hamilton had in mind when he joined Ferrari!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Hulkenberg's Q1 exit means him and team-mate Bortoleto will finish the year 15-15 for qualifying sessions in 2025. This is 12-12 without sprint weekends.

Absolute level pecking.

He's a lonely man out there as Verstappen is the only driver on track. Come on everyone, it's already started...

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

Quick turnaround: we're back for Q2 and Verstappen is first out.

But that's that for Q1 with Hamilton, Albon, Hulkenberg, Gasly and Colapinto all being eliminated.

Celebrations for Piastri though, as he was close to three tenths quickest with Verstappen second and Antonelli in third. Norris sixth.

"Every time mate, I'm so sorry," was Hamilton's reaction.

But here is a shock, well it would have been a year ago, as Lewis Hamilton suffers a Q1 exit for the third consecutive race.

The winter break cannot come quick enough for the seven-time champion...

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

Colapinto also puts in a lap not good enough so it's a double Alpine Q1 elimination - pretend to be shocked!

Speaking of the bottom five, Gasly improves but not by much so he is out.

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / LAT Images via Getty Images

Wasn't the best lap for Lando though, as the championship leader has since dropped to fifth. But quite frankly, who cares? It's only Q1 and what matters is the bottom five.

Whether it was or not is another matter, but it's done the trick as McLaren goes 1-2. Big advantage to Piastri as well!

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Rudy Carezzevoli / Getty Images

New softs for both McLaren cars - was that really needed?

Just five minutes remain in Q1 and cars are coming back out for their final runs. It's certainly a close grid with the top 18 within eight tenths of each other.

Well, Bearman's Haas is looking good because Ocon is currently in the dropzone.

Albon, Leclerc, Gasly and Colapinto are the others in the bottom five with Leclerc and Gasly having used the mediums. Seems a bit of a strange choice that one.

We mentioned earlier that Hamilton also started on the mediums, but he's since switched to softs and is fifth.

Go on Bearman! That Haas is looking good today with the rookie currently second in Q1 after finishing seventh, one spot behind team-mate Ocon, in FP3.

Oliver Bearman, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

More lap times are coming in now and Verstappen goes fastest with a 1m23.325s. It was only yesterday that he complained of struggles with his pace.

Back to the action, interesting choice of tyre for Hamilton and Gasly as both are on mediums with the rest on softs. Looks like they're hoping to save a fresh set of the red-stripped rubber.

So the pole position award will be presented by Benson Boone. Right, time for Google to come in handy...

Never fear Hamilton fans, as he's out on track for Q1 with his car having recovered from his FP3 crash.

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari crash

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp3-1126182/1126183/
DATE: 2025

And that's all from us for now! We'll be back a little bit later to guide you qualifying as it happens - please do join us again!

That's it for practice sessions this year. Just the small matter of qualifying and the race to go...

Photo by: Ronald Vording

Verstappen improves slightly with his last lap of the session, now just 0.124s off Russell and 0.120s off Norris.

Russell leads the session, then - so Mercedes is very much in the fight for pole here.

Ocon's found a good time to get up to sixth, perhaps he's found a fix for his braking woes. As it stands, the top 17 is all within 0.8s.

Norris can't quite improve either, despite improvement in the opening two sectors.

Some damage to Tsunoda's sidepod and floor, so he's ended up coming back in. Albon had ringside seats for the incident.

"The car still jumps, I can't keep my feet on the pedals," Verstappen reports.

The McLarens go out for a second set of laps on the same softs - Piastri is a smidgen slower than his previous effort.

Antonelli drove out of the pitlane and straight into the path of Tsunoda - which has caused damage to the Italian's front wing.

Better news for Mercedes is that Russell has gone to the top, 0.004s up on Norris. Verstappen goes third fastest, 0.180s off Russell's effort.

Bortoleto was matching Norris through that lap, as was Alonso - but their final sector times were well down on that of Norris.

You can get close in those opening sectors, as they're mainly affected by the braking into Turns 5, 6, and 7. But the final sector is the difficult bit.

Norris looked unsteady through Turn 6 and 7, and has to correct himself. He's down on Piastri out of the opening two sectors, but finds a monster final sector to post a 1m23.338s.

Hulkenberg's on a quick lap too, although has a small correction in the final sector - thus, he's 0.532s down.

Verstappen does a 1m24.116s, while Tsunoda aborts his lap.

But Piastri demonstrates the worth of those new tyres, and posts a 1m23.593s to go top by some margin.

Here we are - fresh softs for Piastri, Norris, and Stroll. Verstappen's on a swift one as we speak...

And we go again, 17 minutes on the clock. Nobody has gone out on fresh tyres, so perhaps they're saving a final set of softs until the final 10 minutes or so.

Alright, we're ready to go - almost. We'll restart in a minute's time.

We're just waiting for the go-ahead while Hamilton's car gets picked out of the Tecpro barrier - and, of course, for the barrier to be sorted.

Bit of repair work for Ferrari to do too, as the front-right suspension is hanging on by a thread.

Hamilton was on a quick lap and, on the turn-in to Turn 9 at the end of the second back stretch, the rear just went out from under him.

"Something buckled at the front and snapped the rear," Hamilton reported, as he gets out of the car.

Hamilton spins at Turn 9 and goes into the wall!

Bearman posts another lap, 0.086s off Verstappen's benchmark. He's been quick all weekend so far.

McLaren has more to find on its subsequent runs, although both drivers did their first soft-tyre laps relatively early into the session compared to those in the top five. Mercedes too, as Russell's only 13th and Antonelli's 17th.

Hamilton hits a 1m24.470s to go fastest, but is beaten by Verstappen by 0.225s. Stroll sets a time just 0.059s off Verstappen's effort.

Tsunoda, after that near-miss, splits the two Saubers - who are currently sixth and eighth.

Woah! Norris came across a very slow Tsunoda on the exit of Turn 11, and very nearly resulted in the two coming together.

Shades of Rosberg and Karthikeyan in the 2012 race there, when the then-Mercedes driver saw the HRT too late.

Norris sets a 1m24.533s on his second run on those softs. Tsunoda is up to second - or was, as Leclerc, then Bearman, go up to P2 - Bearman just 0.008s off.

Piastri is 0.595s off Norris at the present moment, in fifth. Laps coming in thick and fast now.

Both Aston Martin drivers have been given a €25,000 fine for not appearing at a scheduled fan engagement activity - with €15,000 of that suspended for 12 months.

The team had apparently said to both drivers that their appearances weren't required due to them stepping back for Jak Crawford and Cian Shields in FP1. Aston Martin has offered to make it up to the fans by making both drivers available for an appearance later this weekend.

Norris sets a 1m24.728s, so the circuit's not quite where it was at the end of yesterday.

But we expect it to ramp up a bit towards the end of the session. Leclerc does a time and goes second fastest, but he's over a second off Norris.

Here comes one of the big hitters, as Lando Norris breaks onto the circuit. Charles Leclerc also arrives on the scene.

Gasly has set a 1m25.984s, and Colapinto with a 1m26.591s, with our first timed laps of the season.

Colapinto and Gasly hit the road now, on Renault's final F1 weekend as an engine supplier...for now.

It's not the first time we've said that - Renault left at the end of 1986 and 1997 - and in both cases, returned within five years.

The works Renault engine teams Williams and Benetton

Photo by: Motorsport Images

It's still just the Aston Martin duo doing their laps around the circuit. Both Alonso and Stroll were summoned to the stewards for missing the fan engagement activities earlier on today.

I'm sure they had more important things to do, Aston Martin's drivers really don't need distractions right now as they battle for *checks notes* seventh in the constructors' championship.

Here we go, two Aston Martins going out for their weekly tyre scrub.

In the meantime, we've got F1's car performance graphic on the screen, which almost certainly means nothing.

...but no takers just yet. Limited tyres across a weekend, of course, so teams don't want to go out just yet.

Give it a few minutes.

And here's your weather watch: it's 27C and a little cloudy out there, with 38C track temperature.

It's the last chance for our 20 drivers to get acquainted to their cars over a practice session, before we get into qualifying later on.

We'll see if there's any big overnight changes - did McLaren and Red Bull find anything extra, and will Mercedes supply a bit more of a challenge, or will Haas and Sauber continue to surprise?

Esteban Ocon, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Max Verstappen is currently feeling pessimistic about his Abu Dhabi Grand Prix chances as Red Bull lacks pace to McLaren at the 2025 Formula 1 title showdown.

The four-time world champion finished runner-up to McLaren championship leader Lando Norris in both FP1 (+0.008s) and FP2 (+0.363s) on Friday at Yas Marina Circuit.

It comes during the season finale where Norris simply needs a podium finish to claim a maiden title, as he is 12 points ahead of Verstappen and 16 above team-mate Oscar Piastri.

Lando Norris ended the final Friday practice session of 2025 on top of the FP2 standings at the Formula 1 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, over three tenths clear of Max Verstappen - as Oscar Piastri was only 11th.

Hello everyone, and welcome back to our coverage of practice at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.

And it's the last practice session of the season, before we get into the business end of the year-long title battle.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp2-1126167/1126168/
DATE: 2025

That's all from us, we shall be back for FP3 tomorrow.

As we start wrapping up this live commentary, I'll hit you with this stat.

Max Verstappen could become the fourth driver to have won the F1 title without leading the championship at any point during the season.

John Surtees (1964), James Hunt (1976) and Sebastian Vettel (2010) are those to have done it up to now.

Sebastian Vettel, Red Bull Racing RB6

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar / Motorsport Images

The session may be over but it's a busy track, because no doubt we'll start seeing some practice starts.

That's that then! The perfect day for Norris, who topped FP1 and FP2 with title rival Verstappen second in both. Piastri, meanwhile, nowhere near having skipped FP1 before finishing 11th in second practice.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

An interesting look at laps completed in FP2 and Verstappen, Albon and Lawson lead the way with 29. Ocon has completed the least on 24.

Bit of a boring end to the session with cars just going through their respective programmes. As predicted earlier, the leaderboard hasn't really changed in the last 10 minutes.

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Gabriel Bortoleto: "Who's this Ferrari?"

Jose Manuel Lopez: "Leclerc...the big Leclerc."

Bit of a funny exchange between Bortoleto and his Sauber race engineer after encountering the Ferrari on track.

It comes as FP1 saw both Charles and Arthur Leclerc drive for Ferrari as part of F1's young driver rule. Lewis Hamilton is now back though, but has spent much of FP2 in the bottom half.

Arthur Leclerc, Scuderia Ferrari

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

"Don't think he's totally dialled in yet, but he'll get there," Zak Brown tells Sky Sports regarding Piastri.

For the sake of a dramatic title showdown, let's hope he does because he's been nowhere in this FP2 session.

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Cars are back out and many are onto the harder compounds as expected. They'll be going through their long-run programmes now and so it's unlikely that the leaderboard will change much in the final 15 minutes.

Once again, good from Sauber which is fifth and sixth in this session after finishing fifth and seventh in FP1.

Hulkenberg and Bortoleto seem to be giving Peter Sauber a good send-off before the Audi takeover next year.

Gabriel Bortoleto, Sauber

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

"I don't know how it's so good," reported a jubilant Bearman, who is fourth in his Haas. Don't sound so surprised Oli, you did finish fourth in Mexico not long ago!

Looks like the hectic soft-tyre window is now coming to a close with half the grid back in their respective garages. Happy days for Lando and Max, but not Oscar.

Does it get better for Oscar on his second run? Not really, he remains 10th and was seven tenths off on that lap after a lock up at Turn 7. A lot of work to be done for the Aussie, who was once in complete command of this championship.

Although, Piastri didn't have a great first run on the softs as he is six tenths off the pace with reports of balance issues...

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

And now Norris goes fastest with the softs, ahead of Verstappen and Russell. So yes, sort of similar to FP1 in that the usual frontrunners are now at the front in this soft-tyre window.

Speaking of soft-tyre runs, Red Bull has fitted a set onto Verstappen's car and straight away he's gone quickest with 34 minutes remaining...

Thanks for that Fil, adding on the action, there are resemblances to FP1 which early on had a few random names at the top. That's like now with Bearman and Hadjar being the top two.

It wasn't until the soft-tyre runs around the 30-minute mark that the usual suspects stamped their mark.

I'm standing at Latifi Corner, which is a good spot to see this generation of F1 cars in anger one last time. Judging from the pulsating beats emanating from the packed yachts lining Yas Marina behind, not everyone shares our interest in FP2.

But we're hearing there has been a last minute surge in interest in this weekend after the events of Las Vegas and Qatar. A lot of fans and VIPs made a late effort to be here for the decider.

And it's dangerous to extrapolate too much from a single corner sequence, but you probably don't need us to tell you the Ferrari looks a handful.

It's been a very busy opening 15 minutes with 19 drivers currently on track. All three compounds are in use as well, mostly the mediums, with Hadjar currently top on the softs.

Norris is fastest of those with the mediums and Hulkenberg on the hards.

Isack Hadjar, Racing Bulls Team

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Verstappen caught out by Norris behind after receiving mixed messages from Lambiase over whether the McLaren was on a fast lap or not.

"What's this guy doing?", was Norris' response. Mind games already started?

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

ICYMI - Exclusive: Lindblad on his F1 graduation and telling Norris 'I would see him in five years'

By graduating to Racing Bulls in 2026, Britain's Arvid Lindblad has delivered on his own childhood vision that he would somehow make it to Formula 1. Speaking exclusively to Autosport, he tells all about his ambition, his Swedish-Indian family heritage and a promise he made to Lando Norris.

And Bearman is now replaced at the top by another driver on the soft tyre which is Hadjar.

It's no surprise that the quickest time is currently set by one of only two drivers on the soft tyre: Bearman with a 1m24.744s.

Ocon is also on softs with the rest on mediums apart from Hulkenberg and Colapintio, who have hard rubber.

The hard tyre was predominantly used in the early stages of FP1, but the medium rubber seems the most popular for this more representative second session. It's already a busy track.

Several drivers in contention for the F1 title going into the season finale? We've been here before... As Lando Norris, Max Verstappen and Oscar Piastri prepare to battle for the 2025 world championship, here’s how it previously panned out...

Who else was in the team principal press conference? Obviously Red Bull's Laurent Mekies with Verstappen also a title contender. But it wasn't all questions about the championship fight, because this week the Austrian outfit announced Hadjar as Verstappen's team-mate for 2026 meaning Tsunoda is without a seat.

On the matter of Tsunoda and his chances of returning to F1, Mekies said: "We have tried everything we could to to support Yuki. At some stage we had to make the difficult call between where we were seeing that going for for the following years. "I hope and I think that Yuki will get another chance. He will be reserve driver with us next year, you never know what's going to happen.

"We have been we have been quite famous in making fairly swift driver decisions in the past. So, look, when I recall one moment at the end of the season 2024, Yuki was was driving very well. It was very difficult for him to digest."

Yuki Tsunoda, Red Bull Racing, Laurent Mekies, Red Bull Racing Team Principal

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

McLaren's Zak Brown was also in the Abu Dhabi team boss press conference and he was asked about the prospect of team orders between Lando and Oscar come Sunday.

“In the sense of team orders, as long as both drivers have a chance to win the world championship – which they clearly do sitting here right now – then it's business as usual, they're free to race,” said Brown.

“Obviously we’ll be practical and realistic. If, as the weekend develops, as the race develops, it becomes clear that one has a significantly better chance than another, then we're a team that wants to win the drivers' championship, and we will race accordingly to do whatever we can to get whatever that driver is in front to try and win the race.

“Our team orders have been around giving equal opportunity to win the championship, but as the race plays out, if it becomes clear that both can't, then we're going to do what's in the best interest of the team and try and win the drivers' championship.”

Away from the title picture, it was a strong FP1 for Sauber as Hulkenberg finished fifth with Bortoleto seventh. It will be the final race for the Swiss squad before it becomes the Audi works team next year.

Over to team principal Jonathan Wheatley, who said: "We have Peter Sauber [team founder] with us this weekend. Peter and I get on brilliantly.

"What we want to do is sign off on this incredible journey in Formula 1 for the Sauber name by making him as proud as we can on Sunday and putting to bed respectfully the Sauber legacy as we move forward into becoming the Audi F1 team."

Nico Hulkenberg, Sauber

Photo by: Andy Hone/ LAT Images via Getty Images

No doubt the McLaren driver will be happy to be back for FP2...

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

We all know what's at stake this weekend with Norris, Verstappen and Piastri all fighting for the title.

The Aussie may be on the back foot though after skipping FP1 as part of F1's young driver mandate. Norris and Verstappen were the top two in the relatively uneventful session:

Hello, and welcome to live commentary of second practice for this weekend's Abu Dhabi GP!
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp1--1126159/1126160/
DATE: 2025

That's all from us - we'll see you a bit later for FP2, which should be a bit more representative! See you then!

Hirakawa was quickest of the rookie drivers in 11th, Aron 13th, O'Ward 14th, Lindblad 15th, A. Leclerc 16th, Iwasa 17th, Browning 18th, Crawford 19th, Shields 20th.

There's your last FP1 of the year in the history books. Norris is quickest from Verstappen by just 0.008s.

"We are so slow, no? The car feels like it's got zero grip," Charles Leclerc says - as he's told he's not much quicker than the rest of the midfield.

Piastri can't stifle a yawn, and realises he's been caught on camera.

Browning bowls a wide at Turn 1, so its rookies and experienced drivers alike who are finding the run-off.

Hadjar's got a "jumping" car, and at this point I really don't think these drivers will miss the current cars. Like, at all.

Big spin for Leclerc (Charles) at Turn 5, but he's managed to save it and keep going.

"I think Charles is doing some burnouts for the fans," his brother suggests as he follows him into the corner.

"I think there might be something broken on the car," Verstappen reports. "Where are the main issues?" GP replies, who gets the unhelpful response that "it's everywhere".

Everything's infected with brokenness now.

Crawford finally gets a non-hard tyre lap in, doing a lap on the mediums that gets him up to 18th. Browning goes 17th with a lap on softs, 1s off the pace. Leclerc (Jr) moves up to 18th ahead of the two Astons.

15 minutes remain, and our top 10 is Norris, Antonelli, Leclerc (Sr), Antonelli, Hulkenberg, Russell, Bortoleto, Bearman, Sainz, Colapinto.

Bearman is told that Haas will have to retire the car for the session - a sensor is apparently the issue.

Bearman gets up to eighth after his lay-off in the pits. Continued trouble was suspected by Haas, but the Briton keeps going on the mediums.

Norris nips past Verstappen's time, 0.008s up on the Red Bull thus far on those used softs.

There appears to be something on the ground along the start-finish straight. Debris? Water bottle? Crisp packet?

It looks like a can...a silver and blue can, to be precise. Now, if only there was a drinks brand who used such a colour scheme...

Bearman's back out again, but is being told to pit with potentially the same issue as before.

Lindblad is also back on track after Red Bull changed his floor.

Norris goes second quickest, 0.026s behind Verstappen. Verstappen's gone for another tour, 0.021s down on his best effort. Crawford and Shields almost had a moment at Turn 2, as Shields cut off the racing line late.

Meanwhile, more end-of-year radio hilarity: "You have Leclerc Junior at two seconds," Lambiase tells Verstappen. "I find it quite funny you call him junior," comes Verstappen's reply.

Antonelli moves up to third now. Norris aborted his lap on the softs, so he's used it as a prep lap and he's going again - he had a snap at Turn 3.

Russell goes second with a 1m24.733s, 0.24s down on Verstappen's opener on softs, while Hulkenberg moves up to third - also on softs.

Lindblad is in the pits and his (well, Tsunoda's) car is getting some attention from the mechanics.

Verstappen's on softs now, seeing what he can do on a quick lap. He sets a 1m24.493s to go top over Hadjar.

Arthur Leclerc saves his Ferrari from a snap at Turn 12, and brushes the run-off.

Moment of minor hilarity when Russell is told "Owasa" is near him on the circuit. "I think that's O'Ward, not O'Wasa", the Mercedes driver replies.

Hirakawa goes up to ninth on the hard tyre, covering for the lack of running at Haas as Bearman is in the bits. He states that he's got "annoying" bouncing, which is very much the situation with these cars...

Bortoleto goes fastest with a 1m25.398s, on the hard tyre - the circuit is cleaning up.

"The grip is really bad, feels like I'm driving on ice" - Lindblad giving a Verstappen-esque appraisal of an early-weekend Red Bull.

Bearman got back to the pits, ready for his team to inspect the issue at play.

"I've lost power," Bearman reports. There's a leak in the system, so he'll hope he can crawl back to the pitlane.

Hulkenberg goes top with a 1m25.439s, 0.015s up on Norris.

Browning's getting a new radio after the earlier issues, hence why he's not got a timed lap in so far.

Elsewhere in rookie-watch, O'Ward is seventh, Lindblad 13th, Aron 14th, then Hirakawa, Leclerc (A), Iwasa, Crawford, and Shields.

Norris does a fast final sector to set a 1m25.454s, returning to the top. Verstappen's got a good middle sector, and that's second for him.

Sainz goes top on the hard tyre, setting a 1m25.712s. Top four all closely matched at the minute, although this session means basically nothing given the circuit conditions.

Leclerc The Elder moves up to sixth, until Antonelli posts the fastest time of the session and does a 1m25.708s.

A few shuffles at the top; Lindblad was very briefly top of the charts, but Norris throws down a 1m25.764s on the mediums to go top. Hulkenberg just a fraction behind on the same tyre as it stands.

O'Ward then goes up to second on the softs, before Russell nudges ahead of the IndyCar star.

Verstappen sets a 1m27.130s on the hard tyre to go fastest, despite a smidgen of traffic. Shields blocked him a little bit there.

Meanwhile, both Alpine drivers have a wobble out of the final corner, while Browning has a bit of radio trouble and struggled to hear that Hadjar was coming.

Iwasa kicks us off with a 1m29.850s on the hard tyre, beaten by O'Ward's 1m27.398s on the softs. Sainz, Lindblad, and Antonelli also get their first laps in.

The Racing Bulls duo head out first - Hadjar from Iwasa, followed by O'Ward - in Piastri's McLaren for this session.

Lindblad and one of the Leclercs is on the road - Arthur, not Charles!

Not long until FP1 now, and we'll get to see a(nother) glimpse of next year's new rookie driver in Arvid Lindblad.

The rest are seasoned FP1 drivers at this point, bar Cian Shields - but the Scotsman has been doing some TPC running with Aston Martin this year.

Lando Norris, Max Verstappen, and Oscar Piastri were together in the press conference yesterday, to a packed out media room.

Here's how it went down on Thursday:

Eight of the 10 teams still have FP1 rookie quotas to fulfil - they'll check that box in this session, one of the less representative sessions as it's held in the day. Here's the list of FP1 swaps.

McLaren - Pato O'Ward in for Oscar PiastriRed Bull - Arvid Lindblad in for Yuki TsunodaFerrari - Arthur Leclerc in for Lewis HamiltonWilliams - Luke Browning in for Alex AlbonRacing Bulls - Ayumu Iwasa in for Liam LawsonAston Martin - Jak Crawford in for Lance Stroll, Cian Shields in for Fernando AlonsoHaas - Ryo Hirakawa in for Esteban OconAlpine - Paul Aron in for Pierre Gasly

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Hello everyone - and welcome to our live coverage of the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix weekend.

So, we're here. 23 races done, one to go. 12 points separating the top two in the championship, 16 points separating the top three. And it all begins here in FP1!

The Driver World Champion's trophy...who will have their signature etched upon it next?

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-updates-media-day/1126145/
DATE: 2025

That's all from us this afternoon - join us again tomorrow as we cover off the practice sessions, and assess how the race weekend is shaping up! Thanks for joining, and we'll see you then!

You can stay in touch with everything F1 from Abu Dhabi with the following schedule (all Abu Dhabi local times):

FP1: 13:30, FP2: 17:00SATURDAY

FP3: 14:30, Q: 18:00SUNDAY

Yuki Tsunoda says he was told after Qatar that Red Bull would not be keeping him for 2026; understandably, he was left disappointed by the news that he would not be racing next year.

He says that his Red Bull contract didn't allow him to pursue leads elsewhere, but added that his only regret in moving up to the brand's main team was that he missed out on a "pretty good f***ing car" with Racing Bulls.

"I'm disappointed obviously and pissed off and how I was told was it was right after the race, from Helmut, yeah privately, that I'm not going to race next year so I think that's it.

"But surprisingly I'm okay, I mean not okay but like I'm surviving okay, like the day after, the morning I ordered breakfast as usual, same food," Tsunoda said.

"Probably I'm not recognising enough that it will be the last race for this year or at least for next year so yeah, maybe I'll feel more after Abu Dhabi, but yeah, that's how it went and how I feel now."

On having only one regret: "Probably I was saying that I didn't have any regrets. The only regret I have is missing out that pretty good f***ing car, but also throwing away your kids, your baby, because it's the car that I developed with the team throughout the years since we had this regulation and I'm sure there's my DNA inside as well."

Yuki Tsunoda, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lewis Hamilton says that he supported Ferrari's decision to stop development in 2025 and that a dip in performance was anticipated - but it "felt worse" living through it.

Hamilton's demeanour has not been one of great enthusiasm of late as Ferrari's results have dropped away from the other top-four teams, but he says it hasn't taken a long-term toll.

"I mean, it didn't have a psychological effect on me personally. I didn't know at the end of the year we'd be where we are, no. We anticipated it, but it felt worse, naturally," Hamilton said.

"But I was a part of pushing Fred - we can't fall behind the others in terms of that development for the new car, because it's a steep learning curve for all of us. So I supported it 100%.

"I still do. I think it was the right decision. Particularly where we were already with the car, we weren't fighting for a championship."But it's just meant that it's been harder to maintain the performance, at least some of the performance we had at the beginning of the year. I can't answer the question for the rest of the team. I think everyone's stayed really positive in my experience. So I've not seen a psychological effect."

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Kimi Antonelli opened up on the abuse he received in the wake of the Qatar Grand Prix, as a torrent of horrific social media comments was sent his way following misplaced accusations about losing a place to Lando Norris.

Red Bull's Gianpiero Lambiase suggested to Max Verstappen that Antonelli let Norris through, a statement echoed by advisor Helmut Marko. Both apologised for their comments afterwards.

"It was not easy to get all those kind of comments, after the race, especially for something that I would never do such as waving past a competitor," Antonelli said.

"I was fighting for P3. At the end of the day, I was pushing hard and I was trying to get into the DRS of Sainz.

"After so many laps in dirty air I'm pushing so hard, the mistake arrived, because I obviously every lap I was pushing a bit more and more to get closer and I arrived to the point where the tyre gave up. At that moment I did a mistake and Lando passed me and, you know, then after the race to receive those kind of comments, definitely it hurt.

On Red Bull's apology: "It was nice to see the Red Bull statement, also GP came to talk to me as well and we clarified, I also clarified with Max and that was nice.

"But apart from that, after that I got a lot of support which was nice and definitely also it helped to kind of forget what happened and focus on onto this weekend."

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Norris has done quite a bit of the talking so far in this press conference and, asked if McLaren had discussed the chance of one driver helping the other, both drivers said that this hadn't been part of the team's preparation.

Norris added: "I haven't asked for it and I don't want to ask for it. If I was asked to help Oscar I think I would, because that's just the way I am, but yeah, I haven't asked for it."

Both McLaren drivers have their families at the track, while Verstappen does not - stating that "everything was cancelled after Zandvoort". His father Jos is rallying in Kenya this weekend, and his mother "is at home with the dogs".

Lando Norris, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

The final Thursday press conference of the year - and it's a packed room with questions for Max Verstappen, Lando Norris, and Oscar Piastri.

Norris: "Nothing changes, just some reviews of last weekend, what was clearly not good for us and the mistakes we made, and what we could improve on. but that's normal post-weekend understanding. But nothing does change, for everyone in the team, just more excitement."

Verstappen: "Spent some time with my daughter, figured some stuff for GT3 for next year, sim team planning for next year. Pretty straightforward stuff!"

Piastri: "I wasn't organising GT3 teams! I played some padel, and treated it as normal. Not that many days in between, had a marketing day, so that's been it!"

Speaking in the press conference, both George Russell and Charles Leclerc shared their experiences of the past four years.

Russell spoke about Mercedes' initial difficulties and having to play catch-up, while Leclerc explained that Ferrari's bright start to 2022 was undone by its porpoising.

Russell on Mercedes' 2022-25 fortunes: "I think we started in the wrong place, it lead us down and had to revert. Red Bull had almost a six-month, eight-month headstart while we were trying to work [porpoising] out."

Leclerc on Ferrari's lack of progress from 2022: "I agree, I think for us there are many reasons which played a role. In 2022 we started quite well but had porpoising. Red Bull had a very stable platform but were overweight, and when they took off that weight they were suddenly at the level where they've been since then.

"We focused very early on next year's car which I hope is a bet that it'll be a winning one. For sure it has some influence through the past two-thirds of the season we've been struggling because we didn't bring that many updates. It's been a generation of car that has even very difficult to understand. Bringing parts from the factory I think everyone has been surprised more than once that it doesn't correlate exactly."

Charles Leclerc, Ferrari

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Earlier this season, Fernando Alonso stated that he'd celebrate not having to drive this year's AMR25 car - and has his eyes keenly on 2026 when he'll get access to a car influenced by Adrian Newey for the first time.

He says that 2026 might need to be used to "glue everything together" but is confident Aston Martin has the right people on board.

"Yeah, I think we're happy to say bye-bye to this year and obviously we've been not as fast as we were hoping," Alonso said.

"2024 was a tough and and challenging season and 2025 was just the, the big brother of that, so we're struggling and we don't hide from that. It's the last race.

"We want to finish in the best possible position and help the team in the constructors' championship, but yeah, looking forward to next year for sure.

"I mean, the factory is completed, wind tunnel is brand new and completed, and we are using it. We have Adrian Newey, Andy Cowell, Enrico Cardile, we have great people and great talent in the factory, We just need, you know, to put everything in place. There are new facilities, people are just a few months into the system.

"It won't be enough with these few months, so we need one full season to glue everything together."

Fernando Alonso, Aston Martin Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Pierre Gasly admits to being torn - at least, in the moment - on Alpine's decision to sacrifice almost all development in 2025 to progress in 2026, but believes the decision is "for the better".

Alpine has been rooted to the bottom of the constructors' standings, with Gasly having scored all of the team's 22 points. He reckoned that if the team had brought updates, it might have been in the reckoning for a higher constructors' finish, but at the detriment of next year.

"Many times I look at the ranking and I'm like, 'OK, what if we had this on the car, what if we had that..."

"I think what I care about at the end is just making sure that I'm able to provide my best, my best to the team, Because ultimately I want to achieve much bigger things in F1. I just want to know that I'm able to do it whenever the moment comes to me.

"It's always nicer if you can be 6th or 5th or 4th instead of 9th. I must say I'm quite happy that the team took this very aggressive approach, and I think I would have been slightly more annoyed if we would have tried to push the development 2-3 months further to actually get what, 8th, 9th in the championship, and actually affect next year.

"I'm quite optimistic and and confident for next year just based on the sort of decisions we took. It was a rough, eight months and it hasn't been really fun, But I think it's for the better."

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Ollie Bearman addressed the abuse that fellow F1 rookie Kimi Antonelli received in the wake of the Qatar Grand Prix, calling those responsible the "scum of the earth".

Antonelli was wrongly accused of moving out of the way of Lando Norris in Qatar by senior Red Bull figures and, although they apologised for their remarks, it was too late to stop the 19-year-old Italian from receiving a deluge of unwarranted abuse.

"Generally it's always the case that people [who abuse others] behind the screen are horrible and they're scum of the earth, really. I don't think they should be doing that type of stuff to someone.

"You know, like, I understand that people who've been in F1 for a very long time can get used to it and people who are rookies, it may be their first experience, you know, having that type of criticism, but that criticism is an absolute joke. It shouldn't be tolerated and I know the FIA are doing everything they can to stop that, but the problem is these sad people giving those types of criticisms. It's a joke, you know.

"We're putting our lives on the line to entertain people and to, you know, give the people who are passionate for the sport a good time and you have people like that who are just hurting people and that's not just racing, that's also their personal life and I just think people are terrible. "

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes, Oliver Bearman, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Dom Gibbons / LAT Images via Getty Images

No rest for the wicked, it seems; Esteban Ocon and Ollie Bearman will be flying to Italy after the Abu Dhabi weekend is over to get their first taste of Haas' 2026 car in the Ferrari simulator.

Haas boss Ayao Komatsu wanted both drivers to maintain focus on 2025, and thus has suggested that both drivers hold fire on trying the new car before the season is over.

"As soon as this is finished, we are flying - both me and Ollie - to the team in Maranello, and we are driving the 2026 car," Ocon explained.

"It was very much a team's decision, not for us to focus on the 26 stuff in terms of driving, in terms of, driving style, technique and everything before this season was finished. Ayao was very clear on that.

"He wanted us to focus completely on this season, which is very important for the team. We've done meetings because we had to in terms of technicality and some stuff that we had to decide very early on with the team. But the work for us is going to really start post Abu Dhabi testing."

On Haas' title partnership with Toyota: "It is great news, Toyota is a brand that I really enjoy working with. I'm not saying that because they are working with us, I really mean it; they have great values, they have great respect, they are passionate about racing.

"They are petrolheads basically, and that's so cool to see when we visited them in Japan, they've put us in on the gravel track, and they've put us in the in the craziest track I've ever seen, on the road, and I've tested the WRC car at Goodwood. It's fantastic honestly to work with them."

Esteban Ocon trying out WRC cars with Takamoto Katsuta

Photo by: Toyota Racing

We've got another bumper crop of younger drivers as the teams look to fill their quota of young drivers (the regular drivers must vacate their seats twice a year in FP1, unless they began the year as a rookie).

McLaren - Pato O'Ward in for Oscar PiastriRed Bull - Arvid Lindblad in for Yuki TsunodaFerrari - Arthur Leclerc in for Lewis HamiltonWilliams - Luke Browning in for Alex AlbonRacing Bulls - Ayumu Iwasa in for Liam LawsonAston Martin - Jak Crawford in for Lance Stroll, Cian Shields in for Fernando AlonsoHaas - Ryo Hirakawa in for Esteban OconAlpine - Paul Aron in for Pierre GaslyMercedes and Sauber have already fulfilled the rules on FP1 drivers.

Arvid Lindblad, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Michael Potts / LAT Images via Getty Images

Alex Albon has heaped praise on his Williams team for delivering a car with which he was able to enjoy his best F1 season. Albon opened the year with fifth place in Australia, and sits ninth in the championship with 73 points.

"I would say my best season yet in many ways I feel like, obviously the car I think it takes credit for most of that," Albon stated.

"I haven't changed so much my application into this year but the car and the, what the guys and girls have done at the factory have made a huge step this year.

"I've been with this team for four years now, and this has been clearly the biggest step out of the four years from year to year. It's been enjoyable, been fun to be able to race against some of the top teams in some certain tracks."

On recent form tailing off: "Towards the end of the year, not ideal, but generally pace has been strong, just either myself, I've made a couple of mistakes - Vegas and Baku kind of stand out to me - but then, the other ones have just not gone my way, just kind of what it was like for Carlos at the beginning of the year."

Alexander Albon, Williams

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Hoping that one of its drivers ends up taking the title, McLaren has made a few colourful addendums to its livery for this year's finale.

McLaren Abu Dhabi GP special livery

Carlos Sainz backed Lando Norris to win this year's F1 title, noting that Abu Dhabi is "a Lando track" and mentioned the Briton's win at the circuit last year.

Norris beat Sainz to the win by 5.5s last season, and will be hoping to close out this year's championship with a similar result.

"I do have an interest obviously and I will be following very closely, closely also I think everyone knows how well I get on with Lando and obviously I wish Lando the best possible outcome in that sense," Sainz remarked.

"I also have a lot of respect for Max and Oscar, and I wish them the best, but I think Abu Dhabi is a Lando track. It's good for him that I think the finale is in Abu Dhabi, which is from my experience being his teammate here is one of his best tracks at driving.

"The win he took last year in front of me still hurts and he dominated last year a race in front of me. It's a Lando track and it's a McLaren track, so I think he, he plays with that advantage.

"Still going into the last weekend, having to finish on the podium is never easy, even if you drive a McLaren and I think he needs to execute a perfect weekend and I believe he, given how well he's responded under pressure recently, I think he can do it."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, Carlos Sainz, Williams

Photo by: Bryn Lennon / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Nico Hulkenberg says he'll be keeping an eye on the screens around the track to follow F1's title battle between Max Verstappen, Lando Norris, and Oscar Piastri.

The German praised Verstappen for his recent form, and reckons his experience in battling for titles will stand the four-time champion in good stead.

"He's had such a good run recently, so strong with no mistakes and just absolutely been been flawless and and killing it," Hulkenberg said.

"He's behind, 12 points is quite a lot, but obviously we know mathematically it's possible and we know crazy things can happen. I think he obviously knows how to fight for a title, and I think pressure is not an issue for him.

"He's got nothing to lose really."

Nico Hulkenberg, Sauber

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Gabriel Bortoleto has had his share of rookie moments over 2025, but he's also been able to prove his worth at Sauber across the season with plenty of impressive moments through the year.

The Brazilian picked Hungary, where he finished sixth, as his best race of the year.

"Main highlights, I can't forget to say Budapest. I think it was so far my best race of the season," he said.

"I think [it was a] great quali - Q3 - and then making a move in lap 1 and then having very good management of the tyres and finishing the race in P6. It was great because I think that was pure pace and, and very enjoyable.

"There were many other races, you know, Austria first points, Monza, Spa - I think they were very good races as well."

Gabriel Bortoleto, Sauber

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Some early news from the weekend: Haas has a new title sponsor for 2026. Toyota picks up the title deal from MoneyGram under its Toyota Gazoo Racing motorsport brand - and thus, the team will race as TGR Haas F1 Team next year.

Good morning folks, and welcome to the start of our live coverage of F1's season finale at the Yas Marina Circuit - and we've got a three-way title decider coming our way!

Who's going to win: Norris, Verstappen, or Piastri? It'll be a thrill-a-minute ride on Sunday night.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Ahmad AlShehab / NurPhoto via Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/nico-hulkenberg-celebrates-250th-f1-start-with-gladiator-helmet-and-sauber-tribute/10782150/
DATE: 2025

is making his 250th Formula 1 start in Abu Dhabi this weekend. In celebration of this huge milestone, he's wearing a special Gladiator helmet with a design that mirrors the characteristics that have allowed him to stay and thrive in the championship for such a long time.

Asked how clearly he remembers his F1 debut in 2010, the  driver says he's "happy to be still around".

“Not super well," he admitted. "Bits of it, but yeah, nice milestone, nice achievement, obviously for me personally, for my career. And yeah, happy to be still around, living the dream and enjoying myself.”

The helmet design has been revealed as a symbol of his strength that culminated in a highly successful 2025 season and his first, long-awaited podium finish at the British Grand Prix.

“Well, I think it just resembles a little bit what you need here in the sport," he continued. "Resilience, fighting spirit, endurance, all these kind of attributes, I think, are needed to survive for that long in this industry."

The German's first podium was also Sauber's first podium finish since 2012, something that has helped push it from the very bottom of the constructors' standings. But while this year has been a confidence boost for Hulkenberg, it hasn't all been smooth sailing.

“To be honest, it was not something that I actively really thought about along the way. Obviously from 2010, okay, one year out, '11, and then back, it was a constant train and pretty comfortable and secure. At the end of '19 or, through '19, I kind of needed and wanted a break.

“Again, didn't think too much about the future, and then obviously had the comeback in '23, so it just evolved and kind of happened.”

On the back of his first season with Sauber, he reflected on the progress they made as a team.

“I think more or less. I think the season or the year has been a bit two-sided. Obviously, we started off poorly and under the expectations and behind our expectation and potential.

Nico Hulkenberg, Sauber, Steven Petrik, Nico Hulkenberg race engineer

“And then from Barcelona onwards, I think we corrected for a lot of it and had many, many point-scoring races. Obviously, a couple of highlights, main highlight being Silverstone and Barcelona, I think Gabi in Budapest, the team performance in Austria, and a few more. Austin was really good too.

“Last weekend, obviously, was very unfortunate. But so I think at the end of the day, on balance, probably it's what we wanted, what we aimed for.”

The Sauber name is set to disappear following plans to become the Audi works team next year. Hulkenberg paid tribute to the legendary team.

“I mean, yes, in a way. But at the same time, nothing in this world is forever. I think it's just the legacy they leave behind.

“All the different times in F1. How long the team has been around as a private team. I think you need to acknowledge that.

“Just give them huge credit and respect for what they've achieved and survived.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/what-f1-history-tells-us-about-three-way-title-deciders/10782173/
DATE: 2025

Championship situation before the title decider1. Juan Manuel Fangio, Alfa Romeo, 26pts2. Luigi Fagioli, Alfa Romeo, 24pts3. Giuseppe Farina, Alfa Romeo, 22pts

Final standings1. Giuseppe Farina, Alfa Romeo, 30pts2. Juan Manuel Fangio, Alfa Romeo, 27pts3. Luigi Fagioli, Alfa Romeo, 24pts

Alfa Romeo team: Juan Manuel Fangio, Giuseppe Farina, Felice Bonetto and Emmanuel de Graffenried

Photo by: Motorsport Images

The inaugural season of the world championship was all about the unrivalled Alfetta, which won all races (but the Indianapolis 500) and gave Alfa Romeo a 1-2-3 in the first world championship grand prix at Silverstone.

Nobody else collected more than 10 points before the title decider, so it was all to play for between Alfa’s drivers, with an important caveat: only the best four results from the seven-round season would be taken into account.

While Farina and Fangio had shared the victories so far with three points-scoring results each, Fagioli had finished second on four occasions and therefore needed to win with the fastest lap to have the slightest chance of surpassing Fangio.

Fangio got pole position with Farina third and Fagioli fifth, but Farina took the lead on the first lap and was only challenged by ’s Alberto Ascari, whose engine overheated, leading to his retirement.

A podium finish would have sufficed for Fangio to prevail in the championship, and he was running in second when he retired due to gearbox issues, awarding the title to Farina. Fagioli, meanwhile, finished third and scored no points owing to the aforementioned rule.

Championship situation before the title decider1. Juan Manuel Fangio, Alfa Romeo, 27pts2. Alberto Ascari, Ferrari, 25pts3. Jose-Froilan Gonzalez, Ferrari, 21pts

Final standings1. Juan Manuel Fangio, Alfa Romeo, 31pts2. Alberto Ascari, Ferrari, 25pts3. Jose-Froilan Gonzalez, Ferrari, 24pts

Juan Manuel Fangio, Alfa Romeo 159

Photo by: Motorsport Images

Ferrari became a real challenger to the Alfettas in 1951 with Alberto Ascari and Jose Froilan Gonzalez, while Alfa’s Giuseppe Farina was taken out of the running by technical failures at Silverstone and the Nurburgring.

The ‘best four results’ rule was still in use, meaning Gonzalez needed victory, the fastest lap and a Fangio non-score to win the championship, while Ascari’s title bid required him to finish at least second.

But Fangio already had the best results of anyone so far, so he needed second place to improve his tally by one point or a victory to put himself out of reach.

That’s exactly what he did on the very straightforward Pedralbes track, located in Barcelona, which was 6.3km long and featured six corners. Fangio was beaten to pole by Ascari by 1.68s, but Ferrari ran into tyre issues and Alfa’s Argentine passed him on lap four, leading all the way to the chequered flag for his first world title.

Championship situation before the title decider1. Jack Brabham, Cooper, 31pts2. Stirling Moss, Cooper/BRM, 25.5pts3. Tony Brooks, Vanwall, 23pts

Final standings1. Jack Brabham, Cooper, 31pts2. Tony Brooks, Vanwall, 27pts3. Stirling Moss, Cooper/BRM, 25.5pts

Jack Brabham pushes his Cooper-Climax to 1959 F1 Championship Title on the final lap

There were no world champions on the grid in 1959 after Juan Manuel Fangio and Mike Hawthorn retired. Jack Brabham’s season started ideally with four podiums, including two victories, which meant that halfway through the nine-round campaign (including the Indy 500) the Cooper driver was on 27 points, with Vanwall’s Tony Brooks on 14 and everyone else on nine or fewer.

A clutch issue took Brabham out of the German GP at AVUS, then he crashed out of the Monsanto race in Portugal, blowing the championship race open.

Every driver’s best five results counted towards the standings, which meant Stirling Moss would lose one point if he scored, while anything worse than a podium finish would be useless to Brabham. Moss needed at least second place for a title chance, while Brooks required a win.

Moss took pole at Sebring, three seconds faster than runner-up Brabham on the 8.4km Floridian track, with Harry Schell making it a Cooper 1-2-3 ahead of Brooks.

Moss led Brabham by 10 seconds after five laps, but gearbox trouble took him out of the race and title contention.

Brabham went on to dominate the race but ran out of fuel on the last lap. This wasn’t enough to jeopardise his championship, as Bruce  and Maurice Trintignant were three minutes ahead of Brooks, who needed to win; Brabham pushed his car to fourth, and triumphed.

Championship situation before the title decider1. Graham Hill, BRM, 39pts2. John Surtees, Ferrari, 34pts3. Jim Clark, Lotus, 30pts

Final standings1. John Surtees, Ferrari, 40pts2. Graham Hill, BRM, 39pts3. Jim Clark, Lotus, 32pts

Champion John Surtees, Ferrari

Photo by: Motorsport Images

If you thought the 2008 Brazilian Grand Prix was unique in the title changing hands at the very end of the finale, please reconsider.

Graham Hill had been the most consistent driver over the 1964 season, but only the best six results counted, so he wasn’t going to improve his points tally unless he finished on the podium again in Mexico.

Ferrari’s John Surtees was his closest challenger, requiring at least second place to surpass the Briton, while Jim Clark needed to win and for Surtees not to do better than third.

Clark had been the strongest driver that season, taking four out of nine pole positions thus far and winning every race that he didn’t retire from – only three, as his Lotus’ fragility cost him dear in every other round.

Clark was fastest again, by nearly one second, at Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez, where he led Dan Gurney and Surtees’ team-mate Lorenzo Bandini on the grid, with Surtees and Hill down in fourth and sixth respectively. Both of them lost even further ground at the start, as the BRM driver was readjusting his goggles when the flag dropped.

The situation was ideal for Clark. He led, with Hill 10th and Surtees 13th. The Englishmen fought their way up to third and fifth respectively by lap 18 – such a result would have given the title to Hill by one point. But on lap 31, he and Bandini collided at the hairpin, which damaged the BRM’s exhaust pipes. Hill dropped outside of the top 10 positions and never recovered.

The title just seemed to belong to Clark. But with some eight laps remaining, the Lotus suffered an oil leak. Clark lost the lead to Gurney on the penultimate lap, which handed the title back to Hill, then retired on the last tour.

But it wasn’t over. Having inherited second place, Bandini waved team-mate Surtees through, gifting him and Ferrari the world title.

Championship situation before the title decider1. Graham Hill, Lotus, 39pts2. Jackie Stewart, Matra, 36pts3. Denny Hulme, McLaren, 33pts

Final standings1. Graham Hill, Lotus, 48pts2. Jackie Stewart, Matra, 36pts3. Denny Hulme, McLaren, 33pts

Graham Hill, Lotus 49B Ford

Photo by: Motorsport Images

Still reeling from Jim Clark’s untimely death in an F2 race at Hockenheim, Lotus had the best chance to win the title thanks to Graham Hill.

Hill had a great start to the season, finishing second to Clark in the Kyalami opener before winning in Jarama and Monaco as the team’s new lead driver, but five retirements in the next six races meant Matra’s Jackie Stewart and McLaren’s Denny Hulme had a realistic title chance.

Stewart had more race victories to his name than Hill, so would prevail in the championship if he took the chequered flag first, regardless of where other drivers finished.

Jo Siffert took pole position in a Rob Walker-entered Lotus ahead of Ferrari’s Chris Amon, with Hill, Hulme and Stewart starting from third, fourth and seventh respectively.

Hill grabbed the lead into Turn 1 as Siffert and Amon took poor starts; Honda’s John Surtees ephemerally overtook the championship leader before suffering a technical issue on the following straight.

Stewart passed Surtees on lap two and outbraked Hill for the lead on the fifth tour, which put him on 45 points – as many as Hill, but as explained earlier, Stewart would be the champion on countback.

Alas, Stewart dropped to third behind Hill and Siffert. He inherited second place again when the Swiss driver stopped in the pits for four minutes to fix a throttle issue, but the Matra then lost fuel pressure on top of a cracked frame that skewed the rear suspension. That was the end of Stewart’s title hopes, as he tumbled down to seventh.

Meanwhile, reigning champion Hulme had retired as early as lap 11 due to a damper failure. This paved the way for Hill to comfortably win a second world championship with a dominant victory, 79 seconds ahead of Bruce McLaren.

Championship situation before the title decider1. Emerson Fittipaldi, McLaren, 52pts2. Clay Regazzoni, Ferrari, 52pts3. Jody Scheckter, Tyrrell, 45pts

Final standings1. Emerson Fittipaldi, McLaren, 55pts2. Clay Regazzoni, Ferrari, 52pts3. Jody Scheckter, Tyrrell, 45pts

Emerson Fittipaldi, McLaren, Clay Regazzoni, Ferrari, John Watson, Brabham

Photo by: Motorsport Images

1974 was a topsy-turvy season with four drivers in contention for the title – including Ferrari’s Niki Lauda, who led after round 10 of 15 but retired from the last five races.

Therefore it was a likely duel between Emerson Fittipaldi and Clay Regazzoni, who were level on points – unless they both finished outside the top five and Jody Scheckter, completing his first full F1 campaign, won.

All of them ended up outside the top five on the grid at Watkins Glen, with Scheckter, Fittipaldi and Regazzoni sixth, eighth and ninth respectively. Brabham’s Carlos Reutemann got pole by 0.017s over Hesketh’s James Hunt, set for his first front-row start.

Reutemann led the race from start to finish, ruling Scheckter out of title contention – the South African retired from fourth anyway due to a mechanical issue.

Therefore it became all about who finished in front between Fittipaldi and Regazzoni, but the Swiss dropped down the order as he complained about his Ferrari’s handling, finishing a lowly 11th. Fittipaldi took fourth position and his second crown.

Championship situation before the title decider1. Carlos Reutemann, , 49pts2. Nelson Piquet, Brabham, 48pts3. Jacques Laffite, Ligier, 43pts

Final standings1. Nelson Piquet, Brabham, 50pts2. Carlos Reutemann, Williams, 49pts3. Alan Jones, Williams, 46pts4. Jacques Laffite, Ligier, 44pts

Nelson Piquet, Brabham

Photo by: Sutton Images

1981 was another hotly contested season, with five drivers within 12 points ahead of the title decider – but only three had a mathematical chance to win the title.

The season finale took place on the unloved Caesars Palace track in Las Vegas. Carlos Reutemann took pole position despite spectacularly colliding with title rival Nelson Piquet in qualifying, with the Brazilian taking fourth on the grid notwithstanding neck pain on the anti-clockwise track. Jacques Laffite complained of engine gremlins and found himself down in 12th.

Laffite needed at least second place to have the slightest chance of surpassing Reutemann, and he remarkably fought his way to that very position by lap 32 when Alain Prost pitted for new tyres, but the Ligier driver’s Michelin rubber ended up suffering from the sweltering conditions too and he dropped down the order.

More importantly, Reutemann tumbled down to fifth on the opening lap, then lost two further positions to find himself seventh, just ahead of Piquet.

The Williams driver was suffering from gearbox issues and was overtaken by Piquet on lap 17, with the Brazilian executing a clean, crucial manoeuvre for the title.

Retirements for Gilles Villeneuve and Mario Andretti helped the title-contending duo climb back up the order, but Reutemann was struggling too much after losing fourth gear. An exhausted Piquet ended up fifth, just two seconds ahead of Laffite and John Watson. That made the difference in the title fight.

Championship situation before the title decider1. Alain Prost, Renault, 57pts2. Nelson Piquet, Brabham, 55pts3. Rene Arnoux, Ferrari, 49pts

Final standings1. Nelson Piquet, Brabham, 59pts2. Alain Prost, Renault, 57pts 3. Rene Arnoux, Ferrari, 49pts

Nelson Piquet, Brabham BT52B BMW, punches the air at the finish

Photo by: Motorsport Images

Ferrari had the best one-lap pace in 1983 as Rene Arnoux and Patrick Tambay got four poles each, but struggled to get consistent enough results – even though the Scuderia won the constructors’ title and Arnoux recovered from a poor first half of the season to become a dark horse for the title, with three wins and two second places in six grands prix.

Arnoux still needed another victory in Kyalami, with fellow countryman Alain Prost leading the standings for Renault by two points ahead of Brabham’s Nelson Piquet.

Despite Ferrari letting him go for 1984, Tambay gave his all and took pole ahead of the two Brabhams, with Piquet leading Riccardo Patrese. Arnoux and Prost started from fourth and fifth on the grid, which gave Piquet the advantage for the title.

All the more so as the Brazilian snatched the lead at the start and immediately pulled away. Arnoux retired from eighth as early as lap 10, as his engine overheated. By lap 28, Piquet led team-mate Patrese by 28 seconds, with McLaren’s Lauda shadowing the Italian. Prost was down in fourth, six seconds further in arrears.

Alain Prost, Renault RE40 V6

Photo by: Motorsport Images

Piquet’s advantage was such that he could afford pitting for new tyres and rejoining in the lead. In the end, it mattered little. Prost retired on lap 36 with turbo issues, meaning all Piquet had to do was finish fourth and score three points. He cruised to the finish and duly stood on the third spot of the podium.

Championship situation before the title decider1. Nigel Mansell, Williams, 70pts2. Alain Prost, McLaren, 64pts3. Nelson Piquet, Williams, 63pts

Final standings1. Alain Prost, McLaren, 72pts2. Nigel Mansell, Williams, 70pts 3. Nelson Piquet, Williams, 69pts

Podium: race winner Alain Prost, McLaren TAG Porsche, second place Nelson Piquet, Williams Honda, third place Stefan Johansson, Ferrari

Photo by: Motorsport Images

For the first time since the 1950s, two team-mates tackled the season finale with title chances. Team-mates, but rivals above all, with increasing acrimony between Nigel Mansell and Nelson Piquet.

Erstwhile championship leader Ayrton Senna had dropped out of contention due to his Lotus’ unreliability, and Mansell was in a prime position to win the title. But only a competitor’s best 11 results counted towards the championship; both Alain Prost and Piquet could reach 72 points with a victory, in which case Mansell needed to finish second to see them off, owing to countback rules.

Mansell and Piquet took a 1-2 in qualifying, with Senna and Prost on the second row on the grid, but the Frenchman’s team-mate, Keke Rosberg, unexpectedly surged into the lead. The Finn disappeared into the distance, with his lead surpassing 30 seconds halfway through the race.

Meanwhile, Prost overtook both Williams cars as Mansell attempted to manage his machinery and Piquet spun. This meant Prost was in a position to win the title; as it stood, if Rosberg let his team-mate through, McLaren’s lead driver would end the season on 72 points – as many as Mansell, but winning on countback as he had more second places.

However, Prost clipped Berger’s Benetton when lapping the Austrian and pitted for new tyres on lap 32. Goodyear had previously recommended a one-stop strategy, but after inspecting the McLaren’s rubber, advised all runners that the whole race could be run on the same set of tyres.

Going into lap 63 of 82, Rosberg led his rivals by 22 seconds, with Prost putting pressure on Mansell for third place. That was when the Finn’s right-rear tyre delaminated. But Williams didn’t have time to warn its drivers, and Mansell’s tyre exploded on the next tour. He retired and risked losing the title if Piquet or Prost won.

Nigel Mansell, Williams FW11

Photo by: Sutton Images

Williams played it safe and called Piquet in for new tyres; the Brazilian couldn’t make up the lost time despite his pace, meaning Prost won the race and the world championship.

Championship situation before the title decider1. , McLaren, 107pts2. , McLaren, 103pts3. , Ferrari, 100pts

Final standings1. Kimi Raikkonen, Ferrari, 110pts2. Lewis Hamilton, McLaren, 109pts3. Fernando Alonso, McLaren, 109pts

Kimi Raikkonen, Ferrari celebrates on the podium

Photo by: Sutton Images

2007 marked another intra-team rivalry as rookie Lewis Hamilton and two-time world champion Fernando Alonso went head-to-head for the title.

Hamilton’s maiden season had been nothing short of exceptional, and the 22-year-old Briton was the overwhelming favourite to win the title after winning a wet Japanese GP while Alonso crashed out. He then led his team-mate by 12 points and Ferrari’s Kimi Raikkonen by 17.

McLaren however failed to pit Hamilton early enough on a drying track in Shanghai, and he got beached in the gravel trap at pitlane entry after his tyres got worn down to the canvas, setting up a fascinating title decider.

Second Ferrari driver  took pole at his home track, leading Hamilton, Raikkonen and Alonso on the grid.

Hamilton was passed by both his rivals on the opening lap, locking up as he attempted to fight back against Alonso and dropping down to eighth. A few laps later, the English youngster encountered a gearbox issue and found himself down in 18th.

Lewis Hamilton, McLaren MP4-22 Mercedes with a lock up

Photo by: Rainer W. Schlegelmilch / Motorsport Images

As it stood, Alonso was on 109 points, Raikkonen on 108 and Hamilton on 107.

Hamilton recovered to seventh position, enough to get back ahead of Alonso on countback in the standings, but Raikkonen overcut Massa in the second round of pitstops, giving him the extra two points he needed to win the title.

Post-race, the Williams and BMW cars were investigated over fuel temperature, as fuel was not allowed to be more than 10C colder than ambient temperature. Had they been disqualified, Hamilton would have scored three more points, with the title switching back to him.

Stewards cleared those cars of wrongdoing as they deemed they lacked the necessary data to prove the fuel’s actual temperature. McLaren unsuccessfully appealed the decision.

Championship situation before the title decider1. Fernando Alonso, Ferrari, 246pts2. , Red Bull, 238pts3. , Red Bull, 231pts4. Lewis Hamilton, McLaren, 222pts

Final standings1. Sebastian Vettel, Red Bull, 256pts 2. Fernando Alonso, Ferrari, 252pts3. Mark Webber, Red Bull, 242pts4. Lewis Hamilton, McLaren, 240pts

Sebastian Vettel, Red Bull Racing RB6

Photo by: Andrew Ferraro / Motorsport Images

For the only time in F1 history, four drivers were in contention for the title going into the season finale, as they shared all victories from round five onwards.

Lewis Hamilton needed to win, Sebastian Vettel required at least second place, and Mark Webber necessitated a top-five finish to have a chance to surpass Fernando Alonso.

Vettel took a decisive pole position, outpacing Hamilton by 0.031s with Alonso third and Webber down in fifth.

As it stood, Alonso was primed to win the title with 261 points, leading Vettel (256), Webber (248) and Hamilton (240). Alonso was passed by Button on the opening lap, but still had enough to be crowned, as he was virtually on 258 points.

The key moment of the race was Webber pitting as early as lap 11 as he struggled on the supersoft tyre compound. He was Alonso’s main threat for the title, so Ferrari decided to cover him and called Alonso in. The Spaniard rejoined in 12th ahead of Webber, but behind Renault’s , who had done his mandatory pitstop under safety car conditions on the first lap.

Vitaly Petrov, Renault R30

Photo by: Motorsport Images

In the last pre-DRS race, a dejected Alonso never managed to overtake the Russian rookie. He finished seventh, right ahead of Webber, while Vettel snatched the lead of the championship for the very first time of his career – at the very best time.

Championship situation before the title decider1. , McLaren, 408pts2. , Red Bull, 396pts3. , McLaren, 392pts

Max Verstappen has been mounting a sensational challenge against McLaren after being more than 100 points down on the championship lead at the end of August.

Lando Norris has the edge going into the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, but Verstappen and Oscar Piastri’s chances are not unreasonable. Find all title permutations below.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-1950-2025-alfa-romeo-158-mclaren-mcl39/10722363/
DATE: 2025

Pretty much every single facet of Formula 1 today is unrecognisable versus the shape of grand prix racing at the start of the championship's life – just imagine the idea of Juan Manuel Fangio and Giuseppe Farina sat side-by-side upon a sofa playing the usual social media-friendly parlour games, or Maurice Trintignant courting backlash for an ill-advised and hastily deleted Instagram story. It seems completely incongruous with F1 then, but it's a key part of F1 now.

Thankfully, the core of the championship remains: build the best car with the materials available, race, and whoever finishes at the front by the end of the requisite distance wins.

As of 2025,  is doing the best job of that. As of 1950, it was Alfa Romeo that did so – winning six of the seven world championship races in F1's inaugural season. The one it didn't win was the Indianapolis 500, which it didn’t enter, but that's already contentious enough without delving into the subject matter…

Indy tangent aside, we thought it might be a fun way to look back on F1's progression through the years with a comparison between our current class of the field – the MCL39 – with Alfa Romeo's 158. Will this extol the virtues of modern technology, or simply lend credence to a better-back-then crowd that savoured the days when race victors lapped the entire field? We'll try to be objective.

There's a reason why the 158 was known as the ‘Alfetta’ when it was first produced in 1938 (imagine turning up to an F1 round with a car designed 12 years ago now). It was an incredibly small package, conceived then as a voiturette, which eventually proved to be compliant with the original F1 (initially Formula A) regulations.

Yet, it was a touch longer than some of the other cars on the grid in 1950, like the Maserati 4CLT and  125, and far larger than most F1 cars around in the 1960s, as cars got smaller and lighter before the swell in sizes began in the modern day – a little bit like how phones became tiny, before smartphones started ballooning into pocket-sized tablets. It was also relatively heavy, although cited weight figures vary between 600kg-700kg, presumably to accommodate for fuel.

F1 cars are much bigger now compared to 75 years ago

Photo by: Alexander Trienitz

Versus today's cars, the 158 looks microscopic. McLaren's MCL39 is typical of today's era of cars, where the positioning of hybrid systems and underbody aero necessitated the need to make cars longer, even compared to cars from 15-20 years ago; today's machines look huge. The 2017 aero regs brought back a maximum width of 2000mm after almost two decades of running to a 'narrow' 1800mm, and the 2022-spec rules retained this form factor.

And then there's the weight; again, versus many of the cars that succeeded it, the 158 was much heavier – but for the time, this was very much in the same ballpark. Cars of the 1960s slipped below the 500kg mark, but since then have continued to grow thanks to the safety systems, tyres and power unit parts on board. The 800kg figure of today's cars includes the driver mass but excludes fuel.

Before the monocoque entered the F1 vernacular in the 1960s, cars were built onto frames, with the bodywork panels affixed to it. The 158 was also developed long before common convention decreed that the engine block should become a stressed member, meaning that this was simply bolted into the existing framework.

The trailing-arm suspension at the front was underpinned by a transverse leaf spring linking both wheel hubs, while the 158 used a swing axle at the rear to ensure both rear wheels operated independently under bump and rebound conditions. However, the limitations of this system – with little control over jacking, camber, and instability under extreme cornering conditions – prompted a switch to a De Dion rear layout.

Suspension layouts in modern F1 have two functions: they must fulfil a given role set out by vehicle dynamics engineers, and contribute aerodynamically. In recent years, teams have experimented with pushrod and pullrod inclinations at the front and rear; McLaren took a front-mounted pullrod layout and a rear-mounted pushrod when the current regs were introduced in 2022, and has also addressed the positioning of its suspension wishbone legs in order to restrict chassis movement to ensure a stable aero platform.

Current cars have also used torsion bars as dampers for multiple years, given their smaller size and weight versus conventional coil springs/damper units.

Alfa Romeo was powered by its own engine in 1950, while McLaren is a Mercedes customer squad

Photo by: Motorsport Images

An internal combustion engine hasn't really changed in its overall form, but the details and ancillary components are very different. Alfa's inline-eight made use of a supercharger; the original 1938 car produced around 190bhp, but this was upped to around 350bhp by 1950.

The fuel tank was kept in the tail of the car and, although its high fuel consumption was not much of an issue in 1950 given the speed of the 158 versus the other cars, it cost victory in 1951's British GP as both Fangio and Farina had to stop twice for fuel, versus Ferrari's one-stop for winner Jose Froilan Gonzalez.

Today's engines are 1.6-litre V6s with turbochargers, and the addition of the MGU-H for recovery and MGU-K for recovery and drive brings the ultimate power figure up to around 1000bhp. The powertrains boast efficiency figures of over 50%, thanks to both hybridization and advances in ignition, timing and precision. McLaren has been supplied by  since 2021, after ditching its Renault deal, and will continue with the German brand to at least 2030.

Current F1 car gearboxes are eight-speed units to manage the torque from the current power units, and have been semi-automatic paddleshift operated since the 1990s. As engine power and delivery has progressed, so have the transmission units; Alfa's four-speed 'box was enough to put the straight-eight's surprising might onto the road, but F1 moved on; five-speed units started to permeate the grid later into the decade and remained popular for years, particularly through the turbo-era. F1 is up to eight forward gears now.

What else is different? We've got direct injection over carburettors, engine management systems, all kinds of sensors… oh, and the engine sits in the back.

The stopping power of a modern-day F1 car is incredible, as drivers can stamp on the brakes 100 metres before a slow-speed corner at well over 200mph, and ensure an 800kg monster can make it through at the right speed. The MCL39's braking system has six-piston calipers to handle the size of the brake pads – carbon discs and pads have been in use in F1 for multiple years, thanks to their superior strength and performance over steel.

Despite vast changes, one constant is the use of tyre manufacturer

There is a common thread here: both cars use Pirelli tyres. When you look at them, however, there's very little in similarity here other than the brand name and the form factor of a black, rubbery circle. In the 1950s, tyres were incredibly narrow with a distinct tread pattern – and, when you look at them face on, generally used positive camber; this was to reduce rolling resistance on the straights by reducing the tyre contact patch. As tyre manufacturers started to experiment with radial-ply tyre constructions over the then-common cross-ply structure, the tyres themselves could take more load; in 1971, the first slick tyre was produced by Firestone for the Spanish Grand Prix.

Twenty-seven years later, treaded tyres were reintroduced as a measure to slow cars down; grooved dry tyres lasted until the end of 2008, before slicks were reintroduced. Today's tyres are produced solely by Pirelli, which has six dry compounds and two wet-weather constructions.

Drivers were built very differently in the early days of F1. Rather than having to conform to today's standard of a lean, athletic figure to trade off strength and weight, racers were far burlier figures. And they needed to be, if they were to control the cars of the time. Age did not weary them either; Farina was almost 44 when he won the inaugural Formula 1 world championship for drivers, Fangio was 40 when he took his first F1 title in 1951 (and 46 when he won his last), and Fagioli was 52 when he raced in 1950 (and 53 when he shared the winning Alfa with Fangio in the 1951's French Grand Prix).

In more modern times, it was usually common for F1 drivers to debut in their early-to-mid 20s before Max Verstappen's appearance in F1 at the age of 17 rather changed the perception. F1 accordingly created a minimum age limit of 18 to give drivers more time in the junior categories. Norris was 19 when he made his F1 grand prix debut at the 2019 Australian GP, while Piastri was 21 when McLaren signed him for 2023.

Drivers tended to span disciplines or championships during this era, straying beyond grand prix racing to drive in sportscars races. In that context, Norris's experience in endurance racing after participating in the 2018 Daytona 24 Hours could be viewed as something of a throwback – although this came before his F1 career. Aside from exceptions such as , most drivers today are single-discipline racers, understandably so given the size of the modern calendar.

F1 drivers are much younger than they were 75 years ago

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
