======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sir-frank-williams-discharged-hospital/4931448/
DATE: 2020

Williams had been , with his family confirming he was in a stable condition, while keeping the details of his medical situation private.

Earlier on Thursday the 78-year-old’s former team, which he founded in junior single-seater categories in 1966, announced Williams had been released from hospital to continue his recovery at home.

“We're delighted to say that Sir Frank has been discharged from hospital and is now on the mend at home,” a Williams statement read. “The Williams family would like to thank everyone for their support during this difficult time, and to wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.”

We're delighted to say that Sir Frank has been discharged from hospital and is now on the mend at home.The Williams family would like to thank everyone for their support during this difficult time, and to wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.

Williams ended his association with the team that bears his name in September this year, soon after its acquisition by Dorilton Capital, with daughter Claire Williams also stepping down from her role as deputy team principal.

Last week Williams announced former McLaren F1 boss and Volkswagen Motorsport head Jost Capito is set to arrive at the Grove-based team as its new CEO, starting his position next February, with Simon Roberts taking on the role of team principal on a permanent basis.

Roberts is adamant Williams will remain a wholly independent team to continue “the cultural fit with the team” started by it founder as it looks to start a new era in 2021.

"We can see advantages but we don't want to become a B-team," he explained. "We want to retain our independence, but we want to be more competitive. So for us, looking forward, we're open to extending a relationship but the specification of that would depend on what we think we're strong at, internally, and where we think we need help and support.

"From the cultural fit with the team, there's a lot of synergy between the road map that Claire [Williams] had laid out and we're staying very true to that.”

Sir Frank Williams suffered severe injuries in a road accident in France in 1986, which rendered him tetraplegic, but continued to run the team in spite of his injuries and, along with co-founder Sir Patrick Head, Williams was a powerhouse team of the 1980s and 1990s. For his services to the sport, he was knighted in 1999.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/russell-strange-feeling-learning-of-return-to-williams/4925387/
DATE: 2020

Russell raced for Mercedes at the Sakhir Grand Prix after seven-time world champion Lewis Hamilton tested positive for COVID-19, and came close to scoring his maiden F1 victory before eventually finishing ninth.

As Mercedes waited to learn whether Hamilton could race in Abu Dhabi, Russell took part in Thursday's media duties for the team, only for it to be confirmed later in the day that he would be returning to Williams for the rest of the weekend.

Russell conceded that he had mixed feelings upon hearing he would be going back to Williams for the race, having wanted to put together a full weekend for Mercedes with greater preparation.

"It was a strange feeling, to be honest," Russell said.

"Prior to Bahrain, I really wanted to have the two weeks in the car, purely because I was expecting to learn everything I needed to in Bahrain and I could have come here with no excuses, as such.

"As Bahrain did go so well from a performance perspective, part of me was like you know what, I think it was a good weekend, obviously I really wanted to win and I would have had a great opportunity this weekend.

"But nevertheless, these guys at Williams, they gave me that opportunity, they've been working so hard for me over the last two years.

"It's my duty to send off the season on a high, and that's what I'm here to do."

Russell got back into the Williams FW43 car for practice on Friday at the Yas Marina Circuit, and ended the day 2.5 seconds slower than pace-setter Valtteri Bottas in the Mercedes.

The 22-year-old said it was "very different" driving the Williams once again due to the shift in pace.

"There's no hiding the laptimes, obviously that's clear," Russell said.

"Mercedes is the benchmark. I was fortunate enough to race for them last week and know where we need to be pushing the car.

"It's good learning, and to get that back-to-back in the space of five days was great."

Russell was able to score his first F1 points in Sakhir with Mercedes, but was unsure of repeating the feat with Williams in the season finale barring setbacks for the cars further up the order.

"We'll be trying our everything," Russell said. "I think it gets to the last race of the season, I think everybody up and down the grid gets a bit desperate.

"There are a few teams fighting over that P3 spot, so we might see some big lunges. Carlos [Sainz Jr.] is off to Ferrari, so he probably won't care if he bashes up the car, then you've got Danny Ric [Ricciardo] is off, so he probably doesn't care if he bashes up the car.

"Who else is going? Sergio [Perez]'s off, so he won't care if he bashes up the car. It could be a good one.

"But on pure pace, we know we won't be fighting for the top 10, in all honesty. Kimi [Raikkonen] looked really fast, and Kevin [Magnussen], but that's usually the case.

"We're usually a bit off on Friday, and we usually sort it out on Saturday."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/williams-missed-russell-sakhir-mercedes/4923978/
DATE: 2020

Russell was loaned out by Williams to Mercedes for last weekend’s race, with the Briton being chosen as the replacement for Lewis Hamilton who was absent because of coronavirus.

After qualifying on the front row, Russell led away at the start and looked on course for the victory before a botched pitstop by Mercedes and a late puncture cost him a shot at the win.

Russell’s move to Mercedes led to Williams drafting in reserve driver Jack Aitken, who delivered a solid showing all weekend despite a spin in the race that triggered the safety car.

But with Russell’s absence leaving Williams with two rookies in Nicholas Latifi and Aitken, head of vehicle performance Dave Robson said that the team noticed the difference of their regular star man not being there.

“There's no doubt we missed George, not just because of his pace but his guidance on the car and the tyres particularly,” explained Robson.

“So, yeah, not easy. The value of experience is enormous and for sure it's been a little bit harder than it could have been. But, I think, to be fair [to Latifi and Aitken], the two of them have done a good job.”

One of the reasons that Mercedes opted for Russell was that it felt it would be hugely beneficial for the youngster to have the experience of racing for a front line team.

Such knowledge could then be taken back to Williams, which would help both his own and the team’s development potential.

Robson thinks there will be some upside to what Russell will bring back with him, but he has downplayed it being anything that could help transform the Williams package.

“I guess we'll find out over the next couple of weeks when we talk to him again, but there's nothing that he's going to be able to say that will suddenly turn our car into theirs,” he said.

“There'll be quite a limit on what's directly relevant. There's a limit to what they'll tell him, and a limit to what would be reasonable for him to then pass on to us.

“But in any case, I think a lot of the specifics are not that relevant. That car [the Mercedes] is so different to ours clearly that it won't be that relevant.

“But it'll be interesting. He will have gained some valuable experience on how they prepare their tyres, how they do race starts. And whilst it may not be directly relevant, he should at least be able to pick up some of the ideas that they use to work that out.

“At the very least, it's a different experience for him, which is good, and hopefully the experience of racing at the sharp end will help him in his confidence and his understanding of what racing in F1 is about at the moment.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aitken-williams-seamless-replacement-russell/4922353/
DATE: 2020

Aitken was drafted in by Williams as replacement for George Russell, who has been loaned out to Mercedes to stand in for Lewis Hamilton.

Having instantly got up to speed in Sakhir Grand Prix practice, Aitken was faster than teammate Nicholas Latifi in the first two runs in qualifying, before being pipped by less than one tenth of a second on their last effort.

Williams has seen enough, however, to already be impressed by the job Aitken has done in integrating himself so quickly at the team.

Dave Robson, Williams’ head of vehicle performance, said: “Jack's done a good job all weekend.

“We had him in the car [for free practice] in Austria, for the second race, so we knew he was comfortable and fitted, and there were no basic issues.

“All his kit was out here, because we were going to run him at the young driver's test [in Abu Dhabi], so it was actually all pretty seamless to be honest once we had it all confirmed.

“It was quick check with him and he spent a couple of days to embed himself with George's race engineering team. Otherwise seamless and good. A good productive couple of days I think. He did very well.”

Robson said that the way Aitken kept Latifi on his toes this weekend was positive, and he felt that the Canadian had actually got close to making it through to Q2.

“I think Nicholas was probably a little bit frustrated with himself because actually his final lap there was really, really good,” added Robson.

“He made a mistake in the last corner, and was actually pretty close. He could have got into Q2, I think. I'm sure he would have liked to beat him [Aitken] more comprehensively I guess, as that's what racing drivers are like.

“I think it's been fairly close all weekend. I think Jack's had a bit of a tough season in F2, but we knew from Austria and from his career record before that he's definitely no mug. So I think it's credit to Jack he's come in and done a very good job.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/aitken-williams-russell-sakhir-replacement/4920875/
DATE: 2020

Campos Formula 2 driver Aitken will make his first grand prix start on Sunday in Bahrain after being .

Russell is replacing Lewis Hamilton for the weekend after the seven-time world champion tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday.

Mercedes struck a deal with Williams to release Russell for this weekend’s Sakhir Grand Prix, paving the way for reserve driver Aitken to step into the Williams seat.

“It’s been a busy 48 hours or so, but I’m happy now everything is sorted,” Aitken said.

“I can just focus on getting the job done. I’m really excited.”

Aitken revealed that once news of Hamilton’s positive test emerged and Russell became an option for Mercedes, he was quick to get in touch with Williams about the seat.

“Such was my impatience that I actually contacted the team and said, what’s going on?” Aitken revealed.

“That was on Tuesday afternoon, and they just said, ‘we’re assessing the situation, we’ll get back to you, just sit tight’.

“So I sat tight for several hours, and was like, come on! Eventually, it stretched out overnight and in the morning on Wednesday, confirmation came through.

“It was announced half an hour later or something. It all happened quite quickly.”

Motorsport.com understands that Aitken was always going to get the Williams drive in the event of Russell moving up to Mercedes, with no consideration being given to other drivers such as Stoffel Vandoorne and Nico Hulkenberg.

Friday’s running in Bahrain will mark Aitken’s second time in the Williams FW43 car following his appearance in practice for the Styrian Grand Prix earlier this year.

After completing another seat fit and adjustment on Wednesday, Aitken said the car was “feeling pretty good”.

“I did FP1 in Austria, so it was just a case of checking everything was as I remember it,” Aitken said.

“We have the luxury of a lot more time to get prepared and settled in, so it’s been pretty smooth so far.

“The goal for the team hasn’t changed. We want to be trying to get up into the fight with the midfield runners, and hopefully if there’s a bit of chaos and luck, hopefully some points.

“We’re all going to be pushing for that, the same as always.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/russell-frontrunner-replace-hamilton-mercedes/4919551/
DATE: 2020

With Hamilton having been forced out of this weekend’s second Bahrain race because of a positive coronavirus test, Mercedes has been pondering its options about who best to step in.

It is understood that the choice from the off was whether to hand the opportunity to reserve driver Stoffel Vandoorne, who is flying to Bahrain tonight following this week’s Formula E test at Valencia, or arrange a deal to take Russell from Williams.

Vandoorne and Russell are the only two available drivers who have had seat fittings with the team and have previous experience of working with the outfit, factors that are believed to rule out other options like Nico Hulkenberg.

Russell is part of the Mercedes young driver programme and his three-year deal at Williams was always being viewed as a way of preparing him for a future with the German car manufacturer’s works team.

Any move to take Russell would not be automatic, however, with the young Briton under firm contract at his current Grove-based outfit.

However, with Mercedes having a good relationship with the Williams team, it is possible that a separate deal could be arranged to loan him out. Sources suggest that discussions about a potential deal are ongoing.

Beyond any financial incentive of loaning Russell, an added attraction for Williams would also be that the youngster, who is committed to the team for 2021, would return to it after his loan spell as a higher profile driver with some solid experience from a front-running car and potentially strong results underneath him.

Russell also brings with him current race experience and a good understanding of this year’s Pirelli tyres.

For while Vandoorne has extensively tested in the Mercedes simulator, and will likely having done preparation work for this weekend’s race on the outer loop, he has not raced in F1 since the end of the 2018 F1 season.

Russell is believed to be Mercedes’ preferred option because of the benefits it will bring him in terms of his long term development.

But it is understood no final decision has been taken as talks remain ongoing between Mercedes and Williams about the scope of any arrangement.

Mercedes is believed to want a decision made by Wednesday morning, however, so it can prepare properly for the weekend ahead.

Should a deal be struck for Russell to move to Mercedes for either one or two grands prix, then Williams is likely to promote its reserve driver Jack Aitken for his F1 debut.

Aitken is due to race in the F2 season finale this weekend, and took part in a Friday free practice session for Williams at this year’s Styrian Grand Prix.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sargeant-test-debut-abu-dhabi-williams/6866177/
DATE: 2021

Sargeant, 20,, and made his Formula 2 debut in Jeddah last weekend with HWA.

The American youngster has now been confirmed for the end-of-season running in Abu Dhabi, which will take place next Tuesday and Wednesday.

Teams are permitted to conduct running with their current cars using rookie drivers over both days in Abu Dhabi. Sargeant will test for  on Tuesday.

"I can’t wait for my first run in a Formula 1 car and want to thank the team for trusting me with this amazing opportunity,” said Sargeant.

“I’ve been spending time in the factory at Grove and getting to grips with the simulator, which has helped me get an initial feel for the characteristics of the FW43B, but to be able to get out on track will be an incredible experience and one that I won’t forget.

“I’ll be going into the test looking to perform the best I can and to learn as much as possible from the team.”

Recently-appointed Williams sporting director Sven Smeets added: “I’m very much looking forward to seeing Logan in the FW43B and I’m pleased that Williams can provide him with his first outing in Formula 1 machinery; I’m sure it will be a very special moment for him.

“Whilst we won’t be running a ‘mule car’ using the 18-inch Pirelli tyres, the test will still be beneficial for the team. It will also be an incredibly valuable opportunity for Logan to fully understand how we operate trackside.

“I know that having such an immersive experience will only build upon his evident skill and allows the team to continue to support his development whilst capitalising on his talent.”

Sargeant admitted upon joining Williams that his future in racing was looking “very difficult” before linking up with the academy, having lacked the budget to move up from F3 to F2 in 2021 as hoped.

It meant Sargeant spent another year racing in F3, where he finished seventh in the championship for Charouz, scoring one race win in Sochi.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-outlines-williams-tribute-plans-including-fw07-lap-of-honour/6846563/
DATE: 2021

died at the age of 79 last week, leading to an outpouring of emotion and tributes from the F1 community to one of motorsport's most iconic figures.

Plans were already in place for the iconic Williams FW07 car to complete show runs in Saudi Arabia, as the car was sponsored by Saudia, the national carrier, as part of wider sponsorship deals between the team and companies in the Gulf state.

Former F1 drivers  and , who won the world championship in 1996 with Williams, have both conducted show runs in the FW07 car so far this weekend.

But it will now also take place in a pre-race lap of honour as part of the wider tributes to Williams ahead of the grand prix.

F1 has opted against holding a minute's silence within the crammed schedule before lights out, instead staging a standalone tribute to Williams.

At 7:20pm in Jeddah on Sunday, a minute's silence will be held following the drivers' parade, including all of the drivers and team principals, as well as F1 chiefs Stefano Domenicali and Ross Brawn, plus FIA president Jean Todt.

This will be followed by an applause in memory of Williams, while visual tributes will also feature on the podium and on the grid for the moment.

Helmet of George Russell, Williams

Photo by: George Russell

Once drivers have completed their reconnaissance laps to the grid and the pitlane is closed, the FW07 will then take to the track to complete a lap of honour ahead of the race.

A number of drivers and F1 figures have paid tribute to Williams ahead of this weekend's grand prix.

"I remember Frank with fond memories," said , who drives for Williams' eponymous team.

"I remember going to meet him for the first time feeling a bit nervous, back in 2018. But within seconds to be honest, you recognise how warm-hearted he is and the personality he has.

"He was such a great human being and so well loved from everybody within the team and obviously the wider community of Formula 1 as well. He'll always be a legend within Formula 1."

"He gave me an opportunity to drive for his team, and it was the beginning of my journey in Formula 1," said , who raced for Williams in 2017 and 2018.

"Without that opportunity. I don't know where my career would have led to."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/williams-hires-ex-vw-motorsport-boss-as-f1-sporting-director/6842188/
DATE: 2021

Smeets previously served as the team manager of Volkswagen’s World Rally Championship team, working under current  CEO and F1 chief Jost Capito.

After playing a role in VW’s charge to three consecutive drivers’ and manufacturers’ titles in the WRC, Smeets took over as the marque’s motorsport director in 2016 following Capito’s exit to join  in F1.

Smeets continued as motorsport director at Volkswagen for over four years, but has now joined the senior management at Williams as part of the team’s ongoing restructuring.

Capito took sole responsibility for the Williams F1 team earlier this year after the exit of team principal Simon Roberts, and identified a need to restructure the management team, including the hiring of a sporting director.

Smeets took up the role of sporting director last month, and attended his first grand prix with Williams in Qatar, but his appointment was not formally announced by the team.

He is the latest former Volkswagen motorsport staff member to become part of Williams’ senior management, following the arrival of Capito last December and technical director FX Demaison back in March.

According to his biography on the team’s website, Smeets will be “responsible for the sporting governance and representation of the team in all sporting matters related to the FIA, other teams, and motorsport associations.”

Sven Smeets, Jost Capito and Francois-Xavier Demaison all worked at Volkswagen Motorsport before joining Williams F1

Photo by: Volkswagen Motorsport

Smeets will also take “overall accountability for the race team” and be in charge of the young driver academy, which currently includes Jack Aitken, Roy Nissany and Jamie Chadwick.

“Working alongside Jost Capito, FX Demaison and the Williams Racing Management Team, Sven ensures that the optimal culture, resources and environment are in place for the team to succeed,” his bio reads.

Capito said back in June that he found a number of staff within the motorsport industry and F1 paddock now “seem to like now to work for Williams”.

“That helps us quite a lot,” Capito said. “We also see that we have a lot of talent, and we don’t want to turn everything upside down.

“We want to build a team that is a sustainable team for long-term, and that is not just buying people from whoever. That is really creating a proper team, based around the talent we have inside.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/chandhok-why-charming-f1-boss-williams-will-be-dearly-missed/6838869/
DATE: 2021

The first Formula 1 race I ever watched was the 1987 British Grand Prix. We all know the story – Nigel Mansell stops to change tyres, chases Nelson Piquet down, and then dramatically passes him for the win, kicking off an incredible crowd invasion.

That race made me an F1 fan, but it also made me a Williams fan. Sure, I was only three at the time, but in the next couple of years I started to recognise the names Frank Williams and Ron Dennis in the Autosport magazines that would arrive at our home in India.

The concept of a man in a wheelchair being able to run a team that was winning all these races just seemed incredible to me. It planted this seed in my head that human beings can do anything if their mind and will is strong enough.

Fast-forward to 2002 and a mutual friend of ours, Iain Cunningham, who worked at Williams through the late 1980s and early 1990s, asked if I would like to go to Grove and meet Frank. Complete with blazer borrowed from my dad, I nervously shuffled into Frank’s office as he sat there with his headset on, talking away on the phone.

I quickly realised in that first conversation that Frank loved talking about motor racing more than anything on the planet. That obviously was perfect for an F1 super-geek like me! We sat there for nearly an hour chatting about my Formula 3 season, their current battle against Ferrari, and Formula 1 on the whole.

This love for the sport never waned even in his later years. I remember several occasions where I had the opportunity to just chat with Frank about racing, and I always thought he would make a hopeless poker player, because he couldn’t hide his expressions. His face would light up whenever we talked about Alan Jones, Keke Rosberg, Mansell or Juan Pablo Montoya.

I remember chatting with him after driving the 1992 title-winning FW14B at Silverstone, and he was beaming with pride when he described the domination of that season.

Williams was joined by many of his past drivers and staff for a commemorative event to mark the team's 40th anniversary in 2017

Frank’s love and passion for the sport were surpassed only by his tenacity. Bernie Ecclestone tells a great story of Frank coming to borrow a few hundred quid just to get to the next race.

“He always paid me back,” said Bernie. “But as he was paying me back, he’d ask if he could borrow a couple of grand.”

Frank was a grafter who slept on people’s couches, ran a business from a phone box and charmed his way into sponsorship deals that ultimately built the team up into a world championship winner.

Like anyone who’s had life-altering injuries, Frank’s life can really be divided into two halves: pre and post the 1986 car crash. One of the constants across both halves, however, was his wife Virginia, who supported him in the late 1970s when he was scrambling to get money together, and then kept him alive even when the doctors often gave up in 1986.

Anyone who has read Virginia’s book A Different Kind of Life will know what a mountain they had to climb as a family just for him to stay alive, let alone get back to work after his accident.

Over the years, I’ve become very close friends with their son Jonathan and also got to know Ginny and their other children Claire and Jamie. Going to watch races with Ginny brought home how much this was very much a family business where they were all invested in the story. “Be quiet boys, they’re talking about our cars,” she would shush Jonny and me as if we were a pair of children.

In 2019 Jonathan worked with the RofGO collection on the restoration of Frank’s first Formula 1 car, the Brabham BT26 that Piers Courage drove to second place in the Monaco Grand Prix in 1969. We kept it as a surprise for Frank, and arranged a day at Silverstone where his entire family including the grandchildren came to watch the car run.

Chandhok cherishes memory of testing restored ex-Courage Brabham that Williams fielded in 1969, with the entire Williams family present

The smile that came across his face when he saw the car was like a five-year-old on Christmas morning after Santa’s popped in. The pride in having his whole family there to watch the moment made a cold, wet Silverstone feel like the Bahamas. The passion and love for motor racing never waned.

Alongside the likes of Enzo Ferrari, Colin Chapman, Ron Dennis and Ken Tyrrell, Frank was one of the old-school team owners who lived their lives for their race teams. It was thanks to people of their generation who worked alongside (and sometimes against) Ecclestone that the sport is what it is today.

But unlike Chapman or Dennis, who had ambitions of empires outside of F1, Frank’s goals always revolved around motor racing. He was a racer in the purest sense with no distractions to derail that focus.

But he was also very quick to admit that he didn’t really know how to make quick race cars. I heard numerous stories of how brilliant  or Adrian Newey were. He understood that without Patrick he couldn’t achieve the success he so badly wanted, and by extension understood that you need to make a team where engineers want to work.

Just talk to people like Jock Clear, James Robinson or Geoff Willis and they will all tell you what a good place Williams was for an engineer to develop their F1 career.

Frank’s passing last weekend brought to a close another chapter in the storybook of F1. The race victories and world championships are what the public will know. But it’s the inspirational, charming leader with the mischievous grin that the world will miss.

Frank Williams and Keke Rosberg in 1985

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/frank-williams-started-new-team-wolf-split/6835231/
DATE: 2021

The previous season, Frank had hooked up with wealthy Canadian oil entrepreneur Walter Wolf. After seven years of endless financial struggle his dreams appeared to have come true as he finally found a generous benefactor.

Wolf acquired the cars and assets of the defunct Hesketh team, rebadging the 308C as the Wolf-Williams FW05. However the 1976 season was to be a disaster, as the cars were hopelessly uncompetitive.

The ambitious Wolf had commissioned Harvey Postlethwaite, who’d come as part of the Hesketh deal, to design a brand new car for 1977.

Then at the end of ‘76 he brought in ex-Lotus man Peter Warr as team manager. Erstwhile boss Williams was given the position of sponsorship finder, and he thus found himself being edged out of the organisation that he’d founded as Frank Williams Racing Cars. When the Wolf team took its new WR1 to Argentina in January 1977 and Jody Scheckter won, he was not present.

Frustrated at being edged out, Williams quit the Wolf operation and decided to start afresh, setting up a company he called Williams Grand Prix Engineering. After all those years of hard graft since his debut with Piers Courage in 1969, he had nothing, having lost his hard-won FOCA membership in the Wolf deal.

However he had made contact with Belgian driver Patrick Neve, who had sponsorship from the Belle Vue brewery concern, so there was light at the end of the tunnel. After achieving reasonable success in FF1600 and F3 in Britain, Neve had found an F1 chance with RAM in early 1976, making one start in his home race at Zolder. He also raced for Ensign in France, while Bernie Ecclestone asked him to drive a works Brabham-Alfa around the streets of Birmingham as a taster for the F3000 race which finally happened 10 years later.

After concluding the deal with Frank, Neve had an outing in the International Trophy F2 race at Silverstone, in which he put in a sensational performance to finish third. Alas, that form was never backed up in his F1 outings, and it was later speculated that his car wasn't quite on the weight limit that day.

Meanwhile Frank found a modest extra sum from a man who represented Saudia Airlines, and was convinced that his bosses would like Grand Prix racing.

Patrick Head and Frank Williams at the launch of the Williams FW06 at their new Factory

Photo by: Sutton Images

Williams had an ace up his sleeve in the form of Patrick Head, who he'd initially brought to Williams at the end of 1975, just before the Wolf deal was done. Then working under Postlethwaite on the WR1 project, Head was tempted by the challenge of designing a car from scratch for the following season.

“I was still at Wolf and was actually at a test in South Africa,” Patrick recalls. “Frank rang me up and said, ‘I've started up again. We have a budget to do 10 races, do you want to come along and join?’ I said I'd think about it, and tell him when I got back.

“I think the time had come to do my own thing really. For the first year we'd use somebody else's car, and then do our own for 1978. However, I don't think I thought much beyond the first year.”

Patrick Neve, Williams Belle-Vue Saudi March 761

Photo by: Sutton Images

Frank's main task was to find a second-hand chassis. He opted for a March 761, and having paid Max Mosley the princely sum of £14,000, he acquired four used Cosworth DFVs at bargain prices.

The next step was to find a suitable factory, and he settled on Unit 10, Station Rd, Didcot in Oxfordshire, a premises that had once been considered as a home for Wolf. There were delays in getting the paperwork completed, but on a date which remains etched in Head's mind, they moved in… prematurely.

“I forget why we didn't have a key,” says Head. “We were just desperate to get going. We had the Spanish GP coming, so we broke in on March 28, 1977. The factory had the most filthy floor. It had been a carpet warehouse or something. It had no machinery, no equipment, nothing. It needed everything setting up, and we were just desperate to get going.”

In early May the team set off to Jarama: “We had a slightly dippy truck driver. Wolf had this great, gleaming blue truck, and at our first race our guy happened to reverse into it and do a considerable amount of damage...”

In Spain Neve qualified a humble 22nd, and finished 12th, four laps down on winner, Lotus' Mario Andretti. Nevertheless, WGPE was on its way. The team skipped Monaco, and instead Neve went to test at Zolder, only to comprehensively crash the car. A huge effort was required to fix it.

“Frank had been told it was a 1976 chassis,” Head recalls. “When it went back to March to be repaired, the fabricators did a great job, but when they stripped off the paint they said it was a Vittorio Brambilla car from 1974. It had been in for a major re-skinning several times before!”

The accident certainly didn't help, given that the team was running on a shoestring.

“The budget was supposed to be 200 grand,” says Head. “Neve was supposed to bring 100, and Frank was supposed to put in 100. We ended up having 180, because he only got 80 together, but in those days it was quite a lot of money.

“I didn't actually poke my nose into too much of the budgeting, but we were spending almost nothing. We were on cheapo flights, and staying in some of Frank's cheap-deal hotels. At that time it was all good fun, but I'm not sure I'd be too happy about some of those places now! At each circuit we just rented a little 12-foot caravan as our motorhome...

“That year we did 11 races, and I think there were three when we didn't qualify. That really gets through to you. When you are packing up and leaving on Saturday evening, and everybody else is staying around and preparing their cars for the race, it hurts, it really does…”

Patrick Neve, Williams March 761

Neve scraped into the top 10 four times, logging a lucky seventh at Monza.

“To be honest, I'd have to say he wasn't a very tough character,” Head recalls. “F1 was a bit above his league. I didn't actually go to Watkins Glen, because I was working away on the new car. But apparently one time he went over a kerb at the chicane.

“He came in and said he'd gone off a bit and asked them to check round the suspension. There was a gap of about an hour between the practices, but he stayed in the car and wouldn't get out. They couldn't understand why.

"That night, when they took the seat out, the whole of the underside of the monocoque was buckled. That's what was so funny about him. Any normal person would climb out and say, ‘I'm sorry, I've made a bit of a mess of the monocoque.’ It wasn't as if we were that heavy; we didn't give him massive bollockings or anything like that. He was a funny character...”

As Williams slowly expanded through '77, its growing staff included a young fabricator/mechanic called Ross Brawn, who had previously been at Wolf-Williams.

“I guess I was a romantic at the beginning,” Brawn recalls. “I’d been taken in by Patrick and Frank, and Frank was quite an iconic guy. When he got hoofed out, as a romantic young kid it seemed wrong to me that that had happened.

“When the opportunity came to leave I didn’t feel the attachment with Wolf Racing that I probably would have done if Frank and Patrick had still been there. It was an easier decision to make.”

Brawn spent most of 1977 working in F3 before joining the new Williams outfit late in the year.

“Getting to know Patrick at Wolf and working for him was the reason why I went back there when he and Frank started Williams. I remember I was the 11th employee, including Patrick and Frank and the secretaries. There weren’t many when I arrived at Didcot.”

Head admits that he had no idea that Brawn would become such a key figure in the sport.

“It’s extraordinary really,” he says. “I interviewed Ross for the job at Wolf. He had done an apprenticeship at Harwell [Atomic Energy Research Establishment in Didcot], and I took him on as a machinist in the very minimal machine shop that they had.

“It was quite clear that Ross was an intelligent fellow, but even when he moved to Williams, and we gave him some projects to do, I never realised that he was capable of helluva lot more than we were giving him. That’s always one of the interesting things when you are employing people – identifying the people who are capable of doing a lot more.

“Ross was much more easygoing in those days than he was later on. You didn’t really sense ambition with Ross in those days. If it was there, he did a good job of covering it up!”

Alan Jones, Williams FW06, Long Beach 1978.

Photo by: Williams F1

Head and his number two Neil Oatley spent the latter part of 1977 designing what became the Williams FW06. Come January 1978, new signing Alan Jones was on the grid in Argentina in the Saudia-sponsored machine.

The car looked good and was well-engineered, and with Jones having won the previous year’s Austrian GP for Shadow, there was no doubting the driver’s credentials. Suddenly Williams was a serious player – and within 18 months the team would be winning races and setting the pace.

“We weren't jousting at giants in '77,” says Head, “whereas in '78 we were starting to annoy a few people. We had about £350,000 in '78, which a workable budget for one car, but Frank still had us staying in his doss houses...”

Neve, meanwhile, was never seriously considered as potential driver for 1978. That season he was seen just once, when he failed to pre-qualify at Zolder after putting together a deal to run a March under his own name. Following a spell in touring cars, he disappeared from the scene. He died in 2017, at the age of 67.

For Frank that initial 1977 season with the old March and the rebirth it represented would always remain significant.

“I don't have bad memories of ‘77,” he told this writer when the team celebrated its 20th anniversary in 1997. “But the not qualifying bit, and being very much back of the field… Every now and then someone would come roaring down the pits and give us a bollocking for getting in the way when we were being lapped.

"I'd got nowhere on my own the first time round. But I was given the opportunity to start again, and I took it. I think '69 can't be forgotten and played its part, but the main thing was 1977. It was very difficult, but it was fun, it was worthwhile, and we were convinced that we'd get there.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/top-10-williams-f1-drivers-ranked-mansell-hill-montoya/6835814/
DATE: 2021

has been competing at car racing's pinnacle for more than four decades and 16 drivers have won world championship races with the team.

That makes selecting the top 10 Williams F1 drivers a challenge.

For this list we’ve taken into account the amount of success the drivers scored with Williams, the impact they had on the team and the circumstances of their time there. It doesn’t count their achievements at other teams.

Patrese hit fine form in 1991 and had the upper-hand on Mansell early in the year, delivering a convincing win in Mexico

Williams years: 1987 (final race), 1988-92 Williams wins: 4 Williams titles: 0

Carlos Reutemann and Patrese were very close for this 10th spot, but the Italian gets the nod due to his longevity with the team and the fact he took four world championship grand prix wins for Williams compared to the Argentinian’s three. He also didn’t walk out on the squad two races into a campaign, as Reutemann did in 1982…

After a one-off subbing for the injured Nigel Mansell in the 1987 Australian GP, Patrese joined the Briton at Williams full-time the following season. The Judd-powered FW12 was not a Williams classic and suffered poor reliability, but things started to look up when Renault engines arrived in 1989.

Patrese and new teammate Thierry Boutsen were evenly matched and both won races, Patrese taking the 1990 San Marino GP.

But perhaps he was never more impressive than in 1991. Mansell returned but Patrese consistently had the edge in qualifying in the early stages of the campaign, as the FW14 became a real threat to .

He brilliantly led the wet San Marino GP and won in Mexico before Mansell came on strong and took the fight to McLaren’s Ayrton Senna. Patrese nevertheless finished a fine third in the drivers’ standings.

He was never as comfortable in the traction control, active suspension-boasting FW14B in 1992. While Mansell swept to the title with nine wins, Patrese scored just one and only narrowly held off  and Senna for second in the championship.

Schumacher ended a three-year drought for Williams by winning the 2001 San Marino GP

Photo by: Rainer W. Schlegelmilch /

Williams years: 1999-2004 Williams wins: 6 Williams titles: 0

It’s sometimes forgotten how good Michael Schumacher’s brother was at times for Williams, particularly during his brilliant first campaign with the team in 1999.

Ralf consistently challenged the faster McLarens and Ferraris, was unfortunate not to win the European GP and comfortably put his highly rated IndyCar champion teammate Alex Zanardi in the shade.

He also beat impressive rookie  during their year together in 2000 and scored Williams’s first GP win for nearly four years at Imola the following season, one of three victories in 2001.

Things got tougher alongside Juan Pablo Montoya as their time together wore on and Schumacher’s 2004 campaign was ruined by his Indianapolis crash. But his six wins make him the seventh most successful Williams F1 driver, more than any other non-champion.

Montoya's swashbuckling style endeared him to many, as did his ambushing of Schumacher at Interlagos in only his third race in 2001

Photo by: Steven Tee /

Williams years: 2001-04 Williams wins: 4 Williams titles: 0

Separating Ralf Schumacher and Montoya for this list was tough, but the Colombian scored more points (221 to 173) and more poles (11 to six) during their time together, though the German took more wins (six to four).

Montoya was also the more exciting, perhaps more akin to the sort of driver Williams always favoured. He proved as much with his daring pass of Michael Schumacher’s  for the lead of the 2001 Brazilian GP, just his third F1 start.

Montoya was far from error free, but he was fast and aggressive – and got himself into the title fight in 2003 before being scuppered by a penalty in the United States GP thanks to an incident with .

In the end, the Williams-BMW-Michelin-Montoya package was not enough to halt the Ferrari-Schumacher-Bridgestone steamroller, but it got closer than most in the first half of the 2000s.

Villeneuve remains the last Williams world champion, breaking through in 1997

Photo by: Sutton Images

Williams years: 1996-98 Williams wins: 11 Williams titles: 1 (1997)

Perhaps ironically, Villeneuve’s least impressive season at Williams was the one in which he became world champion. As a rookie in 1996 he pushed more experienced teammate  hard, while there were some fine performances in the less-than-brilliant FW20 in 1998 before the move to BAR that signalled the end of his spell as an F1 top-dog.

His 1997 championship win came in the FW19, the fourth most-dominant Williams ever in terms of raw pace.

Some bad luck, errors and a brilliant campaign from Ferrari’s Michael Schumacher meant the title fight was far closer than it should have been, but Villeneuve did enough in the controversial Jerez finale after the Ferrari driver hit his Williams to secure Williams a seventh drivers' championship.

Prost dominated to win the 1993 world championship in the final season of his F1 career

Williams year: 1993 Williams wins: 7 Williams titles: 1 (1993)

Having been sacked by Ferrari and taken a sabbatical from F1, Prost engineered his way into the dominant Williams-Renault package for 1993. The FW15C was the most dominant Williams ever in terms of raw speed and Prost had a rookie teammate in Hill.

The Frenchman was also on the receiving end of some superb Senna drives, which tend to be what 1993 is remembered for, but in reality Prost was a comfortable champion.

He perhaps wasn’t as combative or exciting as Mansell would have been in the same machine, but Prost still scored seven wins and 13 poles – and he retired from F1 with a fourth world title in his pocket.

Piquet beat Mansell to the 1987 title after their fierce battle in 1986 had allowed McLaren's Prost to steal the title

Photo by: Sutton Images

Williams years: 1986-87 Williams wins: 7 Williams titles: 1 (1987)

Piquet’s best years were arguably behind him when he joined Williams for 1986, alongside Mansell. The two famously did not get on and Piquet felt Frank Williams’s serious road car accident initially prevented him from pointing out that he thought he was supposed to be the team’s number one…

The result was an evenly matched duel that allowed McLaren’s Prost to snatch the title, despite Williams taking the constructors’ crown and winning nine of the season’s 16 races.

The battle continued in 1987 but, following a serious crash during practice for the San Marino GP, Piquet was usually forced to play second fiddle to Mansell. He nevertheless kept picking up points and pounced when the Briton hit trouble.

When Mansell injured his back in Japanese GP qualifying, Piquet was left to take the crown before moving, along with Honda, to Lotus for 1988.

Rosberg capitalised on Ferrari's year of tragedy to win the 1982 title

Williams years: 1982-85 Williams wins: 5 Williams titles: 1 (1982)

A swashbuckling improvisor, Rosberg was perhaps the perfect replacement when Williams’ favourite Alan Jones made a shock retirement at the end of 1981. Thrust into a competitive car, albeit a Cosworth DFV-engined one against the increasingly rapid turbo hordes, the Finn grabbed his chance with both hands.

The spectacular Rosberg only took one victory on his way to the 1982 crown but, in a season in which nobody scored more than two wins, he was a worthy champion.

The turbo revolution had truly overtaken the DFV by 1983 but Rosberg still managed a win in tricky conditions at Monaco, before Williams switched to forced induction Honda power.

The 1984 FW09’s Honda was like a light switch and not one of Williams’s finest. Rosberg nevertheless superbly won the sweltering 1984 Dallas GP.

The FW10 was much better, indicating that Williams was a rising force. Rosberg scored his last F1 victory in the Australian GP before switching to McLaren for 1986, his final F1 campaign.

Hill became F1's first son of a champion to achieve the same feat when he beat Villeneuve in 1996

Photo by: Sutton Images

Williams years: 1993-96 Williams wins: 21 Williams titles: 1 (1996)

Hill wasn’t brought in to Williams to lead its attack, but he ended up doing that for three seasons.

After being a strong test driver, Hill joined the returning Prost in a race seat for 1993. He duly learned his craft and became a frontrunner in the superb FW15C, taking three wins and third in the points table in his first full F1 campaign.

Senna replaced Prost for 1993, as Williams lost much of its advantage over the opposition when the ‘gizmos’, such as traction control and active suspension, were banned. That made the FW16 tricky, and when Senna was killed in the San Marino GP, Hill was thrust into the team leader role in difficult circumstances.

But both Hill and the team rallied, the FW16B improved and main rival Michael Schumacher and the Benetton team got embroiled in various controversies. After a brilliant win in the Japanese GP, Hill moved within one point of Schumacher for the Australian GP decider, only to miss out following the duo’s dubious clash.

Hill was often Schumacher’s main challenger in 1995, but mistakes from both team and driver meant the Benetton star was a comfortable champion. The atmosphere within the team also meant Williams decided to replace Hill for 1997.

Before that, though, Hill grabbed his final championship chance with the FW18. Rookie teammate Villeneuve took the title to the Japanese GP finale but in truth Hill was comfortably the better driver in 1996, taking eight wins and nine poles from 16 rounds.

Jones was the first Williams champion and the archetypal Williams driver

Williams years: 1978-81 Williams wins: 11 Williams titles: 1 (1980)

The man that set the template for what a Williams F1 driver should be, certainly in the minds of team founders Frank Williams and Patrick Head. The straight-talking, non-nonsense Australian starred in Head’s neat FW06 in 1978.

A self-professed average qualifier, Jones was a racer and become a frontrunner with the FW07. Unreliability cost him in 1979, but four wins in the final six races paved the way for a title tilt the following year.

Jones scored five victories as he beat Brabham’s Piquet to the crown, Williams also wrapping up its first constructors’ title with Reutemann in the other car.

Some misfortune, the odd error and strained relations with Reutemann cost Jones the following year, despite him arguably driving better than ever. He finished third in the standings as Williams won the constructors’ championship again despite losing the drivers’ to Piquet, and Jones announced his retirement.

Mansell dominated the 1992 championship and broke the record for the most wins in a year

Williams years: 1985-88, 1991-92, 1994 Williams wins: 28 Williams titles: 1 (1992)

Not always the easiest driver to work with, Mansell was undoubtedly a charger once behind the wheel. And being at Williams seemed to bring out the best in the Briton. His 28 victories for the team put him seven clear of second-placed Hill on the Williams wins list.

After four lean years at Lotus, Mansell joined Williams alongside Rosberg for 1985 and soon became a threat. Victory at the European GP at Brands Hatch was immediately followed by a second win in South Africa.

Joined by Piquet for 1986, Mansell scored more wins (five) than anyone else but was famously robbed of the title by a tyre blowout in the Adelaide finale.

Mansell again set the pace in 1987 but was dogged by misfortune. His qualifying accident at Suzuka put him out of the final two rounds, guaranteeing teammate Piquet the title despite the Brazilian taking only half of Mansell’s wins tally.

After two years at Ferrari and his first ‘retirement’ from F1, Mansell returned in 1991. Following a tricky start alongside Patrese, Mansell stamped his authority on the team by challenging Senna for the title.

With the gizmo-laden FW14B, Mansell dominated the 1992 campaign, taking nine wins from 16 races on his way to the crown.

Off-track drama then led to Mansell heading to IndyCar but he returned during Williams’s tumultuous 1994 campaign and scored his final GP victory in the Adelaide finale.

“There are more stories to be recounted about Nigel Mansell within Williams than anyone else,” said the late Frank Williams. “He was just one helluva racer. Whenever he went racing the horns came out and he was off. He was fantastic, but difficult to deal with sometimes."

Mansell was famously denied the 1986 title by a puncture in the Adelaide title decider

Photo by: Sutton Images

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/patrick-head-pays-tribute-to-f1-legend-frank-williams/6831878/
DATE: 2021

I met Frank in late 1975. I had worked at Lola Cars in the early 1970s for three years, after a degree in engineering at University College, London, and after involvement with a project developing Super Vee Volkswagen engines and then designing the Scott F2 car. I'd then worked with Ron Tauranac at Trojan Cars part-time while building a boat in the Surrey Docks, and received a call to meet Frank at his works at Reading.

I knew nothing of Formula 1, or of Frank , but was completely broke and was happy to take his offer to join the long line of designers he had had working for him.

One week after I started, the deal with Walter Wolf was done and with that came Harvey Postlethwaite and the Hesketh cars. I was offered £500 to leave or to stay and work under Harvey. This was a great learning year for me, and I had the opportunity to observe without being in the direct firing line.

At the beginning of 1977 Frank departed, I was with Jody Scheckter and a small test team at Kyalami in South Africa and received a call from Frank saying that he was starting again, and would I join him? It was a big step for me, but Frank's total enthusiasm and commitment was infectious, and I decided to depart with him. This was the start of Williams Grand Prix Engineering in March 1977.

Photo by: David Phipps

Frank operated very much on the business and operational side, and myself on the design and manufacturing side, and we generally did not interfere in each other's 'patch'.

In the early years we had some serious fiscal challenges, requiring hiding from the bank manager, although to be fair to the local Didcot bank manager he went well outside his authority to support the team, but the amounts of money supporting F1 were very different from now.

There were times when I found the challenges overpowering, but Frank was always positive, always convinced that 'everything will work out, chap', that it was hard not to be swept along with his positive attitude.

Over the years we had few reasons to argue, but I can truthfully say that I never had any reason to doubt his commitment to supporting myself, whatever engineering challenges arose, even sometimes when we took a little time to correct them.

Frank Williams with Keke Rosberg, Williams

He was very much in admiration of fast drivers, and we won championships with Alan Jones, Keke Rosberg, Nelson Piquet, Nigel Mansell, Alain Prost,  and , not a slouch among them, but his highest admiration was for Ayrton Senna. I am sure he was devastated when Ayrton was killed in a Williams car, but Frank was very private in his emotions, he never expressed his, I am sure, anguish that Ayrton should die in a Williams car, nor did he show any lack of conviction regarding the company carrying on, winning more races and championships.

Frank was immensely supported by his wife, Ginny, emotionally and practically, I believe. Most or all of her payments from her family went towards keeping Williams afloat in the early days, and again, although Frank did not show it, I have no doubt he was devastated when she died much too young at 66 in 2013 of cancer.

Frank's commitment and enthusiasm towards success on the track was infectious , not only to me but to all others who worked at Williams. Right up to the final days of the Williams family running the company, Frank could be seen in the factory and particularly in the 'Race Shop' with the cars and the team mechanics, inspiring his workforce.

Frank had already stepped back from the company and the Williams family sold their interest in mid-2020, but his mark upon F1 is very much made, and he will be warmly remembered by many, including myself.

Photo by: Ercole Colombo

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/the-genesis-of-f1-great-sir-frank-williams/6829500/
DATE: 2021

Officially, it all started 44 years ago - but that's not true at all. Within just two years of its founding, Williams Grand Prix Engineering was the shiny, new irresistible (down)force of Formula 1, but its rise begs the old question: 'how many nights does it take to be an overnight sensation?'

Eight long years of turmoil, tragedy, of missed and wasted opportunity, of false starts and disappointment - almost the same length of time as the current drought - preceded what was Frank Williams's last chance to really make his F1 ambitions stick as he'd always belligerently believed they would.

Frank had briefly raced himself before wisely recognising his strengths lay in the hustle of getting racing cars on to grids rather than away from them.

His first muse was good friend and brewery heir Piers Courage, who scored a promising second at Monaco in a smartly turned out blue Brabham in 1969 - only to lose his life in a horrifying accident at Zandvoort a year later, driving a de Tomaso born from a collaboration with talented Italian engineer Gian Paolo Dallara. So much promise, cruelly snuffed out in the Dutch sand dunes.

Most would have quit this violent game there and then, but racing people are wired differently - and oddly. Williams was devastated, of course he was - but there was no question of stopping. He knuckled down and went again.

Few in F1 took him seriously. To some, he was dubbed 'Wanker Williams', written off as a 'startline specialist' who at times was consigned to making business calls from a phone box when he couldn't pay the line bill from his base in Bennet Road, Reading.

By 1975, he was desperate - then old friend Dallara introduced him to Austro-Canadian oil tycoon (and eccentric racing nut) Walter Wolf. Here was a man with the means to help, and Frank was grateful to receive. To this day, Wolf maintains he never bought shares in Frank Williams Racing Cars, but Frank claims his investor ended up with 60% and paid off debts of £140,000.

Why? Simply, Wolf liked Frank, which is no surprise. Irrepressible, energetic and quick to smile, he was an easy man to like - and for some, to believe in (despite everything).

Frank Williams in the workshop with an ISO Marlboro IR01 Ford car

But by 1976 Frank's beloved F1 cars were entered under the auspices of Walter Wolf Racing, the uncompetitive Hesketh 308C as a Wolf-Williams FW05.

Whether formally or otherwise, Frank was now an employee - and that was never going to wash. Time for one final throw of the dice.

But as he gambled and backed himself one last time, he made the most crucial - and best - decision of his life: he convinced a sharp, young engineer he'd hired to come with him. It was just as well that Patrick Head said yes.

Son of a military man who'd raced Jaguars in the 1950s, Head was another cocktail of apparent contradictions. After his own brief dalliance with the navy, he'd earned an engineering degree and set a rough path towards motorsport, earning his spurs at Lola.

Direct, fiercely logical but blown along by the creative flair of a free spirit, Head freelanced his way through the early 1970s until he was introduced to Williams by racer and ace sponsor hunter-gatherer Guy Edwards.

Williams spotted a kindred spirit, but Head's faith in his new friend was still remarkable. Having worked closely with Harvey Postlethwaite and made a significant contribution to the smart, new Wolf WR1, Patrick was turning his back on a well-funded team that had just hired Jody Scheckter - and would astoundingly win its first grand prix - for a man who had just taken a lease on a former carpet warehouse in Didcot, and had nothing to fill it.

To the F1 paddock, it seemed to be the same old 'Wanker Williams' when this apparent new entity pitched up at the 1977 Spanish Grand Prix with what was supposed to be a year-old March 761 for Belgian journeyman Patrick Neve.

As it turned out, March's smooth-talking co-founder, Max Mosley, had sold them a cast-off - orange paint under the bodywork's surface suggested Vittorio Brambilla's Beta Tools livery from 1975, but it might have been even older (imagine the Mosley smirk).

A seventh place at Monza was as good as it would get for Neve and whatever March he was actually driving. But all this was just to keep the ball rolling. Back at the warehouse, Head was cooking up the car that would really kickstart this remarkable story.

There was nothing particularly special about the FW06 of 1978, but as conventional F1 cars of the era go it was neat, tidy and logically conceived as a foundation upon which the team could build. Significantly, it also sported new colours.

Williams had sourced F1's first sponsor deal from the Middle East, as Saudia Airlines bought into Frank's vision. And just to complete the package, the team had a new driver for what was still a single-car entry. In Alan Jones, neither Williams nor Head truly realised what gold they'd just struck.

Alan Jones, Williams FW06

Photo by: David Phipps

Like Head, Melbourne-born Jones was the son of a moderately successful 1950s racing driver and couldn't have been a better fit for the team. Hell, he even looked like Patrick: if you didn't know, they could have been brothers.

Having scrapped his way to London, then wheeled and dealed his way into F1, 'Jonesy' had even scored a grand prix win, for Shadow in Austria in 1977. That form and his no-nonsense, straight-ahead Aussie approach raised the stakes for Williams and Head - and the trio quickly gelled. Shared outlooks helped forge a three-way axis of mutual respect.

In the year Lotus struck ground effects (black and) gold with the stunning Type 79, and Brabham's Gordon Murray lobbed in his fan car red-herring, Jones and the little FW06 were never going to shake up the F1 world - but still, there was genuine promise.

At the penultimate race at Watkins Glen, Jones started third, finished second to Carlos Reutemann's Ferrari - and beat Scheckter's Wolf (which must have been satisfying). Meanwhile, Head had been taking a good look at that incredible Lotus.

His FW07 for 1979 was the car Colin Chapman's Lotus 80 should have been. 'Copy' is a strong word in F1, as Racing Point would currently attest, but it's never been a secret that Head's creation was heavily influenced by Mario Andretti's 1978 title winner.

The harnessing of true downforce was also bolstered by recruitment: first, a straight-out-of-college Neil Oatley doubled the manpower in the design office, while another young chap by the name of Ross Brawn was busy learning, listening and working away in the machine shop. Then as the FW07 began to take shape in a newly-acquired quarter-scale windtunnel, another bright chap called Frank Dernie signed up.

Where first there had only been Frank and Patrick, now there was strength in depth. This was now a proper F1 team.

Jones began the new season still in FW06, but added a second podium finish at Long Beach before the new 07 tested away from prying eyes at Ontario Motor Speedway, California. For the driver, here the ground effects penny dropped.

Andretti had described his Lotus as "painted to the road"; at Ontario, Jones came in after his first run with his eyes wide open: "Bloody hell. Now I understand what Andretti and [Ronnie] Peterson have had. The car has so much grip I can't slide it."

It took a while to iron out new-car niggles, but once the Cosworth DFV-powered FW07 got into its stride Williams was almost unstoppable.

At Silverstone for the British Grand Prix - perfect timing, Frank - Jones hooked it up and stuck it on pole position, six-tenths quicker than Jean-Pierre Jabouille's turbo Renault, on a proper power circuit. Along the pitwall, all eyes turned to the Williams boys. Who was the 'wanker' now?

In the race, Jones scorched into a comfortable lead, only for a new weld on the water pump to crack, and the leak led to a piston failure. Still, by 1979 there were two Williams cars on the grid, Swiss veteran Clay Regazzoni having joined the team.

Once an F1 loose cannon, 'Regga' was now in the autumn of his career but picked up a final victory that day - and the first of the team's 114. "Bravo, Frank," purred Clay at the press gathering.

After Silverstone, Jones swept to four wins in five - Germany, Austria, Zandvoort and Montreal. It was too late, partly thanks to a convoluted points system, to stop Scheckter's Ferrari winning the title, but Williams had more than made its point - with a little help from circumstance. Instead of capitalising on his glorious 79, Chapman was busy shooting off down cul-de-sacs with ill-considered innovations.

Frank Williams and Patrick Head, Alan Jones, Williams

Photo by: Rainer W. Schlegelmilch /

Ligier could have been a problem, but lacked the hard-edged consistency and solid engineering logic upon which Williams was built. As for Ferrari, its perseverance with the still-successful flat-12 would soon play against it, being the wrong shape to properly harness ground effects downforce, while Renault's turbo - the true indicator of what was to come - was still a grenade with a hair trigger. So 1980 would be Jones's year - although not without a fierce fight from another new force who would play his own significant role in the Williams story further down the line.

Nelson Piquet had enjoyed a privileged upbringing in Brazil. Life didn't have to be difficult, but to his credit he'd made it so by heading to cold and dreary 1970s England to make his name in Formula 3.

In 1980, his second full season with Bernie Ecclestone's Brabham, Piquet would prove that privilege hadn't made him soft. The kid was street-smart, hard-edged and fast. He and wheeler-dealer Jones were poles apart and yet remarkably similar. No wonder they couldn't stand each other.

Piquet led Jones by a point at the penultimate round in Montreal when the pair clashed at the first start. Forced to take his spare BT49 for the restart, Piquet charged into the lead - only for his engine to fail. Jones was champion, Williams having already tied up its first constructors' crown.

The FW07 would deliver another constructors' title in 1981, but what would become a familiar Williams trope would first raise its head as the team failed to properly manage tension between its drivers.

In 1980 Regazzoni had made way for Carlos Reutemann. The Argentinian was still a great driver but had endured a lacklustre time at Lotus and accepted clear number two status to Jones when he joined Williams.

The pair kicked off 1981 with a 1-2 in Jones's favour at Long Beach, but in Rio Reutemann ignored an order to cede his lead to the world champion and won in defiance. They hadn't got on before - now the atmosphere was poisonous.

Both would claim two victories each over the course of the year, but it was Reutemann who headed to the Caesars Palace finale in Las Vegas with the title within his grasp.

What really happened that day? Carlos started from pole, but simply disappeared in the race and slipped out of the points, complaining of a notchy gearbox (the team found nothing wrong). Jones won, but Piquet made sure of the fifth place he needed to be champion by a single point.

After one of F1's strangest title denouements, Reutemann went home having spoken barely a word.

This was a time of transition for Williams and its drivers. Jones had already shocked the team at Monza by telling them he intended to retire at season's end (Vegas was a fitting sign-off for its first and forever favourite talisman), leaving Frank and Patrick little time to find a suitable top-line replacement.

They had a performance test booked at Paul Ricard and chose Keke Rosberg to drive, with little thought of signing him. But Dernie reported back emphatically that here was the answer to their problem.

For cock-sure Rosberg, Williams was the career salvation he desperately needed. For the first time, the Finn's certainty about his gilt-edged F1 future had faltered after a miserable season at Fittipaldi. Until Jones dropped his bombshell, Keke had nowhere to go. Thus out of mutual necessity grew another key Williams partnership, and Rosberg emerged as the perfect successor to Jones.

Reutemann too would soon depart, from F1 entirely and for good. He was outqualified by Rosberg in the 1982 season opener at Kyalami, but finished second in the race, then outperformed by his team-mate at a controversial Rio grand prix (Keke finished second to Piquet, but both were disqualified for being underweight). And that was it. Reutemann quit and went home.

Frank Williams, Williams Team Owner with Ron Dennis, McLaren Team Owner

Photo by: Sutton Images

In the wider world, tensions between his country and the UK over sovereignty of the Falklands Islands would spill into a short but brutal war in April, and for Carlos it was all too uncomfortable.

F1's loss would be Argentina's gain as he embarked on a high-profile and successful career in politics.

Turbulence for Williams, then, but F1 itself was in greater turmoil over the course of a deeply troubled season. The FISA-FOCA war for control of the championship was the wider context that even led to a race boycott by the British 'garagiste' teams at Imola, then Gilles Villeneuve died in a senseless qualifying accident at Zolder and Didier Pironi was launched into a leg-smashing crash in the spray of Hockenheim.

Through the chaos and gloom, Rosberg kept his head as 11 drivers scored race wins, his single success at Dijon - plus an unforgettable near-miss after a fantastic chase of Elio de Angelis's Lotus in Austria - proving enough to clinch the title.

He'd done so in a tidy FW08 powered by a £7,500 off-the-shelf DFV against the growing force of the turbos - yet despite that remarkable achievement, Williams was all too aware which way the wind was blowing.

Without access to a turbo, the team was having to box clever - as usual. Development of a smart and potentially game-changing six-wheeler - four at the back rather than at the front like Tyrrell's 1976-77 P34 - was designed not only for improved traction, but more importantly for reduced drag to keep up with the turbos on the straights.

Realising this was no gimmick, the FIA moved quickly to ban four-wheel drive - then pulled the rug even harder in what seemed a wider-context politically motivated decision to ban ground effects, just months before the 1983 season. After picking its jaw from the floor (twice), the Williams team did what it had always done: knuckled down and went again.

New challenges lay before it - but for Frank, what was new? He'd already come an awful long way from those days in the Bennet Road call box.

Ayrton Senna, discusses his first run in the Williams FW08C with team owner Frank Williams

Photo by: Sutton Images

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/tributes-paid-to-sir-frank-williams/6829436/
DATE: 2021

The former team principal, who originally founded Williams Grand Prix Engineering in 1977, .

People from across the paddock paid their condolences to the legend, who led his team to 114 victories between 1979 and 2012, when he stepped down from the Williams board of directors.

Formula 1 CEO Stefano Domenicali said in a statement: “This morning Claire Williams called to inform me of the very sad news that her beloved father, Sir Frank Williams had passed away. He was a true giant of our sport that overcame the most difficult of challenges in life and battled every day to win on and off the track.

“We have lost a much loved and respected member of the F1 family and he will be hugely missed. His incredible achievements and personality will be with etched on our sport forever. My thoughts are with all the Williams family and their friends at this sad time.”

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

FIA President Jean Todt wrote: “Very sad news. Sir Frank Williams leaves a lasting impression on the history of @F1. He was a pioneer, an exceptional personality & an exemplary man. On behalf of the entire @fia Community, our thoughts are with his family, friends & @WilliamsRacing. Rest in peace, my friend.”

Williams driver George Russell wrote: “Today, we say goodbye to the man who defined our team. Sir Frank was such a genuinely wonderful human being and I’ll always remember the laughs we shared. He was more than a boss, he was a mentor and a friend to everybody who joined the Williams Racing family and so many others.

“It has been a genuine honour racing for him and being a small part of the incredible legacy he leaves behind, a legacy that will forever live on in the heart and soul of this team. Rest in peace, Sir Frank. Thank you for everything.”

Teammate Nicholas Latifi added: “RIP Sir Frank Williams. Such sad news. A huge loss for our sport and our team. It’s been an honour to represent your name on the world stage and we will continue to push hard to take the team back up the grid.”

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Ann Bradshaw, who worked for the team for many years, said: “My racing family has always been Williams so can’t describe my sadness at hearing of the death of Frank. My boss, friend and inspiration for many years RIP He had a smile when he was with his beloved cars and racing drivers.”

Sky F1 pundit Karun Chandhok, who works with Williams’ Heritage division, wrote: “Goodbye Sir Frank… A truly inspirational human being whose passion for the sport was only surpassed by his tenacity. My deepest condolences to the Williams family and everyone at the @WilliamsRacing team at this time. #RIPSirFrank”

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

McLaren CEO Zak Brown said: “We have lost a true hero of our sport and an inspiration for so many beyond it. Sir Frank not only created a special F1 legacy but showed the power of human determination to overcome huge adversity. Thoughts with his family and the Williams team.”

A statement from McLaren added: "All at McLaren pay tribute to Sir Frank Williams.

"He was a true racer that embodied passion, ingenuity and commitment. Through immeasurable adversity, Sir Frank created a formidable team and a fearsome competitor. The Williams name will be etched in Formula 1 history and his loss will be felt by everyone in Formula 1 and well beyond.

"We send our condolences to his family and all who knew and worked with him."

The British Racing Drivers' Club said in a statement: "We are deeply saddened to learn of the death of BRDC Vice President Sir Frank Williams CBE.

"We will be forever thankful for Sir Frank’s passion & friendship.On behalf of the Club we send our thoughts to Sir Frank’s family & friends in this sad time.

"Rest in peace Sir Frank."

Alpine Racing CEO Laurent Rossi said in a statement: "Today we lost a legend of the sport. The name of Sir Frank Williams will be forever engrained in the history of Formula 1 and an inspiration for us all.

"Starting from nothing, his passion and hard work combined with a unique talent wrote the most remarkable story of our sport. His courage and resilience in the face of the cruelty of fate persisted and continued to demand our admiration.

"All the Renault family remember our time together with emotion and pride, especially the four world drivers’ titles and five constructors’ championships we achieved together.

"The whole Alpine and Renault teams join me in expressing our sincere condolences to Claire and the entire Williams family, his friends and to the team that continues to bear his name."

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Jacques Villeneuve , who won the 1997 F1 world championship driving for Williams, said Frank was as "one of a kind" and that the pair shared a deep respect for one and other.

"I was sorry to hear yesterday’s news regarding the death of Sir Frank Williams and wanted to extend my sympathy to his colleagues, friends and family," read a statement from Villeneuve.

"I had the satisfaction of driving for Frank for three seasons in Formula One during which time I scored my 1997 Formula One World Championship title and we twice won the World Championship for Constructors. As a result of the time we spent together we shared deep respect and affection for one another.

"Frank was one of a kind, always a racer, totally committed to his team and the challenge of winning. My father knew him and raced against Williams during his career. When I was invited to join Williams I knew it was an opportunity not to miss, Frank and his partner Patrick Head having built a formidable team.

"Naturally I have complete admiration for what Frank achieved in Formula One, but also his courage in dealing with personal adversity following his road accident. He will be remembered by me as a great fighter, on and off the track."

Ayrton Senna, discusses his first run in the Williams FW08C with team owner Frank Williams

Photo by: Sutton Images

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sir-frank-williams-dies-aged-79/6829286/
DATE: 2021

A short statement from the Williams team said he had been admitted to hospital on Friday and passed away peacefully on Sunday morning surrounded by his family.

The Williams team earned 114 F1 victories, along with seven drivers’ titles and nine constructors’ crowns, to become one of the best-known teams on the grid.

Frank Williams had originally founded Williams Grand Prix Engineering in 1977, having previously run cars in Formula 2 and Formula 3. He elected to commit to his own F1 squad after a tie-up with Canadian oil magnate Walter Wolf did not turn out as he had hoped.

Forming a close alliance with long-serving technical chief Patrick Head, Williams’ steely determination came to the fore as he helped turn the squad in to F1 winners within a couple of years.

Williams saw Clay Regazzoni claim a maiden victory for the team in the 1979 British Grand Prix, with its first F1 drivers’ and constructors’ championship double coming a year later when Alan Jones ended the season on top.

The Williams team would go on to win championships with Keke Rosberg, Nelson Piquet, Nigel Mansell, Alain Prost, Damon Hill and Jacques Villeneuve.

Despite the success on the track, Williams faced his own personal challenges off it after being confined to a wheelchair since a car accident near the Paul Ricard circuit in France in 1986.

But he never let his disability affect his focus on doing everything to make his squad as successful as possible, as he and his team proved central to F1 through the booms years of the late 1980s and 1990s.

Williams also endured tragedy himself in 1994 when Ayrton Senna was killed driving for the team at the San Marino Grand Prix. Since that day, every Williams car has carried the logo of the late Brazilian driver.

After stepping down from the Williams board of directors in 2012, Williams handed over many responsibilities to his daughter Claire who became deputy team principal.

But amid escalating costs of being involved in F1, and competitive challenges, the Williams family sold the team to Dorilton Capital in September 2020.

While the team operated under new owners, it vowed to keep the famous moniker that has become so well known in F1 circles.

A statement from the squad on Sunday said: "Sir Frank was a true legend and icon of our sport. His passing truly marks the end of an era for our team and for the sport of F1.

“He was one of a kind and a true pioneer. Despite considerable adversity in his life, he led out team to 16 world championships, making us one of the most successful teams in the history of the sport.

“His values including integrity, teamwork and a fierce independence and determination, remain the core ethos of our team and are his legacy, as is the Williams family name under which we proudly race.”

The Williams team asked that donations are made in place of gifts to the Spinal Injuries Association, and that flowers be placed at the entrance to the factory in Grove.

Details of a memorial service will follow in due course.

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/russell-everyone-at-williams-frustrated-by-recent-form/6815375/
DATE: 2021

Since he earned 10th place at the Russian GP, Russell has finished the last five races in 15th, 14th, 16th, 13th and 17th positions.

He’s also struggled of late to match his early season pace in qualifying, having previously been guaranteed to at least make Q2.

Despite failing to score in recent races  still looks set to beat  to eighth in the World Championship, as it holds a 12-point advantage.

“I think everybody within the team is a little bit frustrated at the moment,” he said when asked by Motorsport.com. “I think we need to go away and understand what's changed.

“I think we've got a few indications. We normally had difficult Sundays but we had really great Saturdays to sort of compensate, and it's easier to hang onto a position than attack for a position given our car pace.

“But for whatever reason, the pace hasn't been there on a Saturday either, so we need to make the most of it in these last two and make sure we seal that P8, because that's the main thing for us at the moment."

Russell’s Qatar GP was compromised by a front left tyre failure that led to a slow lap back to the pits and an extra pit stop. However prior to that he had been able to run as fast as he could.

“At this track it was incredibly impressive how hard you could push,” he said. “It was relatively smooth, which allowed the drivers to really really push flat out.

“Probably from my whole F1 experience, this was the race where it was the highest tempo, if that makes sense, in terms of how hard you could push. That was really enjoyable, but obviously it didn't work out for us today.

“It's quite surprising. The rears you could probably have driven back to the UK on. Wear, it was pretty much just the front left.”

After qualifying Russell had made it clear that the team was struggling to get the tyres to work in Qatar.

“The limitation we’ve had was switching the tyres on,” he said. “If you look throughout all of practice every single lap we were improving. Even FP3, in the middle of the day, the sun was shining, and we improved on our third time lap, which is unheard of especially in the Middle Eastern races.

“Q1 we did the fast slow fast sequence and I improved both times on the second lap. Q2 we sort of put it all on the table for that one timed lap and just couldn’t get the tyres working for the first two corners and that sort of sets you up for the rest of the lap.

“So we need to understand why that is, because usually we excel in these conditions.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/russell-does-not-know-where-williams-pace-has-gone/6777081/
DATE: 2021

The Briton was edged out by teammate  for the first time at Interlagos, on a day when the duo struggled for form and were both knocked out in Q1.

Russell says the lack of speed from the car was of greater concern to him than Latifi having done a better job.

"It just didn't come together for me," Russell told Sky. "I think Nicholas did a really good job, so well done to him.

"But as a team we're struggling a lot and we don't really know where our form has gone. I think this is the 19th race and we've not been in to Q2, twice – so this is only the second time.

"We were a long way away – three-and-a-half-tenths. My lap felt OK, but nothing special. It usually comes to us easier than this, so we need to get our thinking caps on and understand where that pace has gone, really."

Russell suspects that wind direction may have played a part in Williams' struggle, with this year's car having the characteristic of being especially sensitive to gusty conditions.

George Russell, Williams FW43B

Photo by: Jerry Andre /

"I think the biggest thing is the wind," he said. "We've got this tailwind throughout all the tight and twisty sections, which really makes our life pretty tricky. That was [the same situation] last time we were out in Q2 – in Budapest.

"It was exactly the same. We had a tailwind through all the twisty stuff, which really hurt us. So, that is a contributing factor, for sure.

"But it seems a bit too much of an easy excuse. So I need to go away and look at myself, look at the driving and then work with the team to try and understand where this pace has gone."

Although Latifi was pleased to have outqualified Russell, he says he was not especially happy with his lap.

"I think it was tricky right from FP1," explained the Canadian. "I just couldn't get the feeling from the car that we needed. Going into qualifying – I think we always seem to make a step in qualifying, which is nice, but it seems we didn't manage to take quite a big enough step.

"So, not satisfied with the performance, obviously. I think we could have done a better lap – it was a bit scrappy.

"But likewise, we're struggling to get the car dialled in to give you the confidence I need, especially in a sprint weekend like this where it's just one practice [and] straight into it. So yeah, disappointing, obviously."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/williams-opted-against-continuing-f1-2022-development-when-p10-looked-certain/10415036/
DATE: 2022

After ending last year ninth in the standings,  slumped back to 10th place as it struggled to match the midfield teams for form across the course of the season.

,  and one-race stand-in  all managed to pick up points for Williams, but the total of eight for the season still left it well adrift of ninth-placed , which finished on 35 points.

Jost Capito, who left his position as Williams F1 team principal earlier this month, said in an interview conducted prior to his exit that Williams had “progressed the way we wanted to progress” through 2022.

But he recognised it did not have the development speed to keep up with the teams, reasoning the decision not to continue to pursue upgrades for the FW44 car.

Capito explained that while he felt Williams’ major upgrade package brought to Silverstone “went well”, there was little to be gained by chasing further big developments as it would not have been enough to make up any more championship places.

“When you see from there that shortly after, the gap to the ninth and eighth, is too big, that it doesn’t make sense to put effort in this year’s car,” said Capito.

“You would stay 10th, and then you miss out on putting the effort in next year’s car. So when we saw that we’ll be 10th, it doesn’t matter what the gap is, then put all the effort into next year’s car.

“That’s what we did shortly after we had the big upgrade at Silverstone.”

Williams is continuing to recover from a difficult period that saw it finish last in the constructors’ championship three years in a row between 2018 and 2020, marked by significant financial struggles.

The team was acquired by American firm Dorilton Capital in the summer of 2020, allowing it to rebuild and try to regain some of the ground lost on the rest of the F1 field.

Capito said Williams had to “do a step forward” in 2023 after ending this year’s development early, “otherwise it’s something really wrong.”

“We’re still not there where the others are,” he said.

“That’s why it needs really the long-term view until it’s balanced. You say, ‘oh you all now have the same money, so you should be all on the same level’ - no, the teams went on different levels into the cost cap.

“We see Williams before the cost cap had hardly anything to invest for years. So they fell behind.

“Now to catch up with the same amount that everybody has, it’s not just solved by throwing money at it.”

Capito’s exit as team principal was announced in the middle of December, along with that of technical director FX Demaison as part of a restructure of the F1 management at Williams.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sargeant-pressure-williams-f1-superlicence/10411502/
DATE: 2022

Sargeant was announced over the United States Grand Prix as Williams' 2023 Formula 1 driver but only on the proviso that he could qualify for a superlicence. With one F2 round left to run that meant the American had to avoid finishing lower than sixth in the drivers' standings to get over the 40-point threshold.

Due to the tight championship standings and F2's notoriously capricious nature, that was far from a given but Sargeant came through the Abu Dhabi weekend unscathed to clinch fourth and secure his ticket to F1.

Sargeant was only one mishap away from seeing his F1 dream go up in smoke, and while he admitted acquiring the licence was a weight off his shoulders, he actually felt less pressure than expected because he had come to terms with what was at stake.

"I think I was trying to find a balance between risk versus reward, really," Sargeant said. "And it was actually not as much pressure as I expected because going into the weekend, I had become quite understanding of what was at stake and quite at peace with it, so I just took the pressure off.

"I knew if we executed the way we could and had the same pace that we've had all year that everything would be fine. But for sure in the races, I had to find a good balance between being over-aggressive and under-aggressive, I guess you could say.

"I think I wanted to stay very realistic and grounded and know that I still have a job to do. For sure, there was pressure on the weekend, and there was a bit of weight off my shoulders when we got the job done."

Logan Sargeant, Williams FW44

Photo by: Carl Bingham /

Sargeant added he wasn't told by  about any other targets he needed to hit this year beyond securing enough superlicence points in what he branded a "strong rookie season".

"None that I was told in particular," he explained. "It was just simply need to perform well and finish somewhere at the top of the championship in order to get my superlicence.

"I think with Carlin we had a really strong rookie season and at times maybe we didn’t execute as well as we could have. But I think the pace we showed was very strong, and we finished well in the championship."

Sargeant's year-long stint as a  academy member has allowed him to prepare as well as he could for his 2023 F1 debut, given the limited amount of pre-season testing in Bahrain.

When asked on how he felt he had developed as a driver over 2022, he said: "I just feel like the combination of going through an entire Formula 2 season, just learning a lot this year about myself as well as a lot of racing.

"I feel like I’ve really nailed down my qualifying performances. But most important is the amount of time I’ve spent on the F1 simulator, the FP1s I’ve done as of late, and coming into this last test - that’s what really gives me the chance to push out my comfort zones and improve the most."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/latifi-having-nothing-to-lose-didnt-ease-late-season-f1-frustration/10406666/
DATE: 2022

Latifi made his final F1 appearance with  in Abu Dhabi after the team opted to replace him with Formula 2 driver Logan Sargeant for the 2023 season.

The Canadian scored nine points during his three-year stint with Williams but struggled to match the form of teammate  throughout this season.

After picking up his only points of the year in Japan by finishing ninth, Latifi failed to record a finish any higher than 16th in the final four races of the season.

Despite having confirmation of his future that removed the pressure of fighting for his seat, Latifi said after his final outing in Abu Dhabi that it had not reduced the frustration of how the season had ended.

"There's the extra emotional aspect [fighting for your seat] when things aren't going well," said Latifi.

"But at the same time, I still have frustration and disappointment even when I know. Irrespective of knowing if I'm staying or not, I still wanted to do well, still wanted to end each qualifying, each race since I've found out as best I can.

"Just because I've known doesn't mean it doesn't matter. In a way, [there was] nothing to lose, but still a lot of frustration and disappointment in these last six races."

Nicholas Latifi, Williams FW44

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Latifi struggled to adjust to Williams' new car through the early part of the year, and despite a mid-season improvement following a chassis change, his form failed to take a big upswing.

It prompted Williams to confirm ahead of the Singapore Grand Prix in late September that Latifi would not be retained for 2023, leaving him to explore other options.

Reflecting on his time in F1, Latifi said it had been "very character-building, to say the least" but expressed gratitude for the opportunity he had enjoyed.

"Many drivers would kill to do one race, I've gotten to do three seasons in F1," Latifi said.

"It's been tough for sure. I'm leaving feeling like I wanted to accomplish more. I would have loved to have stayed and tried to improve myself, improve with the team.

"But it didn't work out. I've known that for quite a few races now. And yeah, now time to focus on the next chapter."

Latifi is still yet to finalise his racing plans for next year, but is known to be evaluating options in IndyCar and sportscars.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sargeant-lined-up-for-winter-testing-with-2021-alpine-f1-car/10403062/
DATE: 2022

Sargeant, who secured his FIA superlicence over the course of the Abu Dhabi Formula 2 weekend, is expected to be officially confirmed soon as a 2023  driver, and he will take part in Tuesday’s young driver test with the Grove team.

However as a favour to Williams and in order to help him gain more useful miles  has offered to rent seat time in the coming months in its TPC [testing of previous cars] chassis, which has been driven this year by Oscar Piastri, Jack Doohan,  and .

Sargeant has already had a low-key outing in the Alpine but driving for the outfit's car as a fully-fledged race driver for another team is an unusual step.

Although yet to be formally agreed, the planned arrangement reflects a friendly co-operation between the two teams after they came close to agreeing a deal for Piastri to be loaned to Williams for 2023, before the Australian made his move to .

“We wouldn't be adverse to putting him in one of our old cars and running him,” Alpine boss Otmar Szafnauer told Motorsport.com.

“They were helpful with us [over Piastri], and it will be a big help for Logan to run in an F1 car – a two-year-old car now, but still relatively close. And if that's what they decide to do, we'd be willing to look at it.”

Asked if it was unusual for two rival teams to cooperate in this way Szafnauer said: “At this point, hopefully, we won't be competing with them next year! There might come a time where we've got to rethink that.

Logan Sargeant, Williams FW44

Photo by: Carl Bingham /

"It's good to have a relationship with them just in case in the future we need each other, and if we can help them and make a bit of money from it, why not?"

Szafnauer acknowledged that Alpine could one day follow the planned Piastri model, for example by loaning Jack Doohan to Williams: “It's nice to have somebody that's amenable to do that.”

Williams team principal Jost Capito expanded on the team's good relationship with Alpine.

"I think we are friendly with all teams,” he told Motorsport.com. “Without being friendly with Red Bull, it couldn't have happened with Alex [Albon].

“And with  we are a good customer, we are friendly with them. I think we are friendly with everybody. And if you compete on the track it doesn't mean you can't be friendly with other teams."

Regarding Sargeant’s qualification for a superlicence he said: "That's what we were working towards. So I think we can confirm him soon. We had various options for Plan B that we would have got into detail if it wouldn't have worked out.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/abu-dhabi-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026193/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mercedes-f1-wolff-russell-williams-maybe-year-too-long/10400097/
DATE: 2022

, controlling proceedings from the front of the pack after also winning Saturday's sprint race.

He led home a 1-2 finish for  ahead of  and gave the team its first victory of the season, snapping a win drought that dated back to last December's Saudi Arabian Grand Prix.

The win only furthered Russell's status as a future star in F1, having stepped up to a Mercedes seat for 2022 after spending three years with .

Russell has been part of the Mercedes junior programme since 2017, and was supported in his charges to the GP3 and Formula 2 titles ahead of his F1 graduation in 2019.

Reflecting on Russell's rise after his Brazilian Grand Prix victory, Wolff spoke of his first meeting with the British driver when he pitched to join the team's academy.

"I thought about it at the end of the race, when he walked in as a 16-year-old with his suit and his tie and his PowerPoint presentation," said Wolff. "He's the first of our new junior programme that has won a race.

"Obviously Lewis has been there forever, and is the most successful of the ones that have graduated from our junior academy. But six years later, [Russell is] a grand prix race winner. We've always set hard targets. You've got to win GP3, you've got to win F2, and he did that in his rookie seasons.

"And then I guess at Williams, it was the best schooling he could have had, maybe a year too long.

"But in any case, today the most relevant [thing] is that he's a grand prix winner and a deserving grand prix winner."

George Russell, Williams

Photo by: Jerry Andre /

Russell was promoted into a Mercedes seat for 2022 at the expense of , who had spent five years with the team racing alongside Hamilton, forging a successful partnership that yielded five constructors' titles.

Russell signed a three-year contract upon joining Williams for the 2019 season, and helped lift the team from being a distant backmarker to contending for points again, as well as scoring its first podium in four years at last year's rain-shortened Belgian Grand Prix.

Bottas was always handed rolling one-year contracts during his time at Mercedes, and landed a drive at  for 2022 following confirmation of his exit.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sao-paulo-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026150/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/mexico-city-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026105/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/williams-f1-back-up-plan-logan-sargeant-superlicence/10390053/
DATE: 2022

F1 boss Jost Capito announced on Saturday in Austin that .

Sargeant currently has 28 points to his name but could get up to 30 with two clean practice outings for Williams in Mexico and Abu Dhabi, leaving him in need of a top-six finish in the F2 standings to secure the superlicence. He is currently third in the standings.

But Williams has made no firm decision on who would get the second seat alongside  for 2023 if Sargeant was unable to secure the required points.

Asked by Motorsport.com if there was a back-up plan in place, Capito replied: “Yeah, but not concrete, not a name.

“There will be drivers who do not get a contract. There are still very good drivers, and have the superlicence points on that, so that's fine.”

Logan Sargeant, Williams Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Williams is known to have explored a number of options to replace outgoing driver  for next year. The team was expecting to sign Oscar Piastri on loan from , only for the contract saga to result in the Australian joining .

Nyck de Vries was another driver on the radar following his impressive stand-in appearance for Albon at Monza, but he was snapped up by  to replace the Alpine-bound .

Capito said that teams “have to play the politics” when negotiating the driver market, but added that Sargeant’s F2 performances since Silverstone had convinced the team he was ready for the seat.

Sargeant’s superlicence bid is being aided by his practice outings for Williams, while he may also be in line for some bonus points depending on his penalty record in previous years in F2 and F3.

The F2 standings remain tight, with Sargeant sitting just 18 points clear of eighth place with 39 still on the table in Abu Dhabi.

Sargeant said he would “let Williams figure out” what points he required and that he was “just driving as fast as I can at all times.”

Capito explained that the extra practice runs for Sargeant were intended to "make the risk as minimal as possible” in the bid for the superlicence, as well as helping his preparation for the step up next year.

“We want to prepare Logan as good as possible for next season,” said Capito. “That means he has to maximise the time in the car this year, so that's why we gave give him three FP1.

“It gives him additional superlicence points. They're for sure not hurting. And then he will also do the young driver test after Abu Dhabi.

“It's part of the preparation now to get Logan in the best possible position for the beginning of next season.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/united-states-gp-2022-lap-by-lap-visualization/9026062/
DATE: 2022

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/capito-us-nationality-not-key-to-sargeants-f1-promotion/10388574/
DATE: 2022

Capito officially confirmed in Austin on Saturday that the  Academy driver will replace  next season, assuming that he secures his FIA super licence after the Abu Dhabi F2 finale.

Sargeant will become the first American F1 driver since  raced for Manor in 2015.

His graduation comes after the controversy over Red Bull’s unsuccessful efforts to land a super licence for IndyCar star Colton Herta.

A US driver on the grid is seen a coup for the sport by F1 bosses Stefano Domenicali and Ross Brawn, especially heading into a season that will see three American races.

Sargeant will also clearly help Williams owners Dorilton find partners in the USA.

However Capito insists that the 21-year-old has been fast-tracked through the ranks on talent alone.

"It is a good for F1 to have an American driver,” said Capito. “But we didn't pick Logan in the Academy because he's American, we picked him because of his success and his past in racing.

“And if we take the kids or we put into the Academy, it's the objective to get them in the F1 car. If you have a young driver who is ready for F1, and you have the seat, then you have to put these young drivers into the seat, otherwise, you've done something wrong.

“And that's why we came to that conclusion that is the right thing. And that Logan is American, I think it's nice to have, but it's not the initiation of the decision.”

Logan Sargeant, Williams Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Asked about the obvious marketing benefits and the timing of the announcement he said: “Yeah, we're not stupid, are we? We had to put this out at the right time."

Capito said that Sargeant became a serious candidate for a race seat after he scored his first F2 feature race win at Silverstone.

“I think from Silverstone onwards, we said ‘Okay, Logan is ready to get in F1.’ Of course, that was so early in the season that you can't commit, because there's so many things to come, and it went up and down.

“So we had to talk to other drivers as well and sort out the options. And that helped us also then in taking the final decision, and also cover the risk if Logan for whatever reason would not get the superlicence points. We believe he will get the points.”

Asked if Sargeant had progressed faster than expected Capito said: "Oh, not really. But you never know how the development is.

"And from my history, I'm known to get young drivers in quickly. Because that's the best way to find out what the potential really is, and not parking.

“If you see that somebody is ready, like Logan this season, then we can take that decision. He wouldn't have been lost if we had decided he needs another year in F2. Then we would have done that as well.

"But we see that coming in as a rookie, winning races and showing that performance in qualifying, it's the right thing to step up."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/williams-hands-sargeant-further-fp1s-to-help-f1-superlicence-bid/10388378/
DATE: 2022

Formula 2 driver Sargeant made his F1 race weekend debut in opening practice for the United States Grand Prix on Friday in Austin, finishing 19th for .

It helped Sargeant pick up an additional point towards his FIA superlicence, with further outings planned in Mexico and Abu Dhabi this season.

Should he enjoy clean sessions in Mexico and Abu Dhabi, Sargeant could get up to 30 points that would mean he could finish as low as sixth in the F2 standings and still gain a superlicence.

Williams F1 boss Jost Capito has now confirmed that if Sargeant gets a superlicence, he will race alongside  in 2023.

“We feel he’s ready to race,” said Capito in Saturday’s FIA press conference.

“Under the condition that he has enough superlicence points, he will be our second driver next year.”

Sargeant would become the first full-time American driver in Formula 1 since Scott Speed raced for Toro Rosso back in 2007.  made five appearances for Marussia towards the end of the 2015 season, but was never a full-time driver.

Sargeant currently sits third on 135 points, but is only 12 points clear of Liam Lawson who is in seventh place, making the Abu Dhabi F2 finale crucial to his F1 chances.

The team was happy with his performance in FP1 on Friday in Austin, where he completed the 100km required to gain the extra superlicence point. He will also take part in the post-season test in Abu Dhabi.

“Logan showed a high level of understanding during his FP1 debut in Austin and provided useful feedback to help in the team’s preparations for the rest of the weekend,” said Williams sporting director Sven Smeets.

“We are providing Logan further opportunities in Mexico and Abu Dhabi to integrate himself with the team trackside in both Free Practice sessions and the Young Driver Test as we work hard to support Logan in his efforts towards earning the FIA Super Licence.

“It’s great that as a team we can provide invaluable time for Logan to get behind the wheel of the FW44 to continue his development as a Williams Academy Driver and harness his talents.

“We’re looking forward to seeing how Logan progresses this season and finishes out his last race of the season in Formula 2.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-reserve-drivers-all-teams-backup-2023/10437681/
DATE: 2023

Formula 1 teams are well underway preparing for the forthcoming 2025 campaign, which will consist of 24 grands prix beginning in Melbourne on the 14-16 March.

The grid is set and all but two teams -  and Aston Martin - have changed their driver line-up, meaning this year will have a new look.

But it is not just the full-time competitors that play a crucial role, as a team’s back-up driver does as well.

Reserve drivers act on standby during grand prix weekends and may contest one should a team’s regular driver be unable to. This happened at the 2024 Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, for example, as .

F1 teams also employ simulator drivers, who test changes made to the car so that everybody can gain a greater understanding of the machine.

So, who are the drivers supporting their team behind the scenes for 2025?

Liam Lawson served as Red Bull’s reserve driver at the start of the 2024 season, but then .

. This means Red Bull is currently without an official reserve driver, though Lawson’s former team-mate Yuki Tsunoda is expected to step into the role.

Meanwhile, Rudy van Buren will continue as Red Bull’s simulator test and development driver after joining in 2023.

Rudy van Buren, Red Bull F1 Simulator Test and Development Driver

Photo: Red Bull Racing

, but in a reserve driver capacity having been ’s team-mate from 2017 to 2021. The 10-time grand prix winner left for  - now  - having been replaced by George Russell, who was previously at  after graduating to F1 as a Mercedes junior.

But the Swiss outfit opted for an all-new line-up this year ahead of its Audi takeover in 2026, leaving Bottas without a drive. So, in December 2024 Mercedes announced that the Finn was back with the Silver Arrows replacing former reserve Mick Schumacher, who is part of Alpine's Hypercar programme.

Sharing the role with Bottas is the 2023 F2 championship runner-up Frederik Vesti, who started the position last year having become a Mercedes junior in 2021.

, having been part of its academy between 2015 and 2018. He initially left to become Renault’s development driver in 2019 before making his F1 debut with Alfa Romeo in 2022 but, like Bottas, he was dropped by the Hinwil-based outfit for this year.

He will work alongside , who was Zhou's predecessor at Alfa Romeo. The Italian became Ferrari’s reserve driver in 2022 and Giovinazzi also competes for the historic brand in the World Endurance Championship, where he won the 2023 Le Mans 24 Hours.

Regarding Ferrari’s development drivers, that includes Arthur Leclerc who joined in 2024. He is the younger brother of full-time Ferrari driver  and is joined by  and Davide Rigon.

Zhou Guanyu, Ferrari reserve driver

McLaren is yet to announce who its reserve drivers for 2025 are, with previous incumbent . But Arrow McLaren IndyCar driver Pato O’Ward has previously contested F1 practice sessions for the Woking-based team, so it is likely he will continue his commitments.

McLaren also employs , who spends a lot of time in the team’s simulator where he works closely with the engineers and regular drivers.

Aston Martin has retained Felipe Drugovich and  as its reserve drivers for 2025. Previously the team was able to call on the reserves of engine partner Mercedes in case of an emergency but in more recent years, Aston Martin has introduced its own reserve drivers.

While Vandoorne joined from Mercedes in November 2022, Drugovich has graduated from the Aston Martin driver development programme and the 2022 F2 champion has worked with the squad since 2023.

Felipe Drugovich, Aston Martin F1 Team

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Jack Doohan will contest his first, full campaign in F1 this year after serving as Alpine’s reserve driver in 2024 before replacing  at the Abu Dhabi season finale.

As a result, Alpine has announced Paul Aron, Ryo Hirakawa and Franco Colapinto as its reserve drivers for 2025.

Aron had a stellar F2 campaign last year, finishing third to champion Gabriel Bortoleto and Isack Hadjar, while Hirakawa has joined from McLaren where he held a similar role.

There is more hype around Colapinto though, who made his - relatively unexpected - F1 debut in Monza 2024 having replaced Logan Sargeant at . He impressed immediately finishing 12th before taking points at his second grand prix in Azerbaijan with eighth.

But Williams had already announced  as ’s team-mate for 2025, so there was no full-time seat for Colapinto. As a result, , where a spot may soon open up for the young Argentine given Doohan’s unsecure future.

Williams does not currently employ its own reserve driver, as previous incumbent Colapinto has left for the same role at Alpine after impressing for the British squad in his nine-round stint last year.

Jamie Chadwick, meanwhile, serves as its development driver after joining Williams in 2019 which is the year she clinched her first of three W Series titles.

Jamie Chadwick, Williams

Hadjar served as Racing Bull’s reserve driver last year, when it was known as . But following Lawson’s promotion, Hadjar will partner Tsunoda for his rookie season leaving Racing Bulls currently without an official reserve driver.

Considering its close ties with Red Bull though, the Faenza-based squad can call on whomever is in the Red Bull pool.

Zane Maloney and Theo Pourchaire have left the Sauber set-up since acting as reserve drivers last year. The Swiss outfit is yet to confirm who will support its all-new line-up of  and Bortoleto before the squad morphs into the Audi works team in 2026.

Haas is also yet to announce its reserve driver for 2025 having promoted previous incumbent Bearman to a full-time seat at the American squad. One option could be Pietro Fittipaldi though, as the grandson of double world champion Emerson joined the team in 2019 and in that time has started two races due to ’s crash at the 2020 Bahrain Grand Prix.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/f1-tech-review-williams-claws-from-back-of-the-grid/10561712/
DATE: 2023

Let’s take a look at the FW45’s finer details and how it was modified during the season in order to make that leap forward in the pecking order.

Williams FW45 brake caliper

Williams were one of a handful of teams that opted to use tube-like fins on the surface of its front brake caliper in order to help reduce weight and improve cooling.

Williams FW45 technical detail

A close up of the FW45’s front wing at the Australian Grand Prix shows how much wider the static inboard section of their wing was when compared with many of its rivals.

Williams FW45 technical detail

A close up of the floor cutout and underfloor tab wing and skate used at the start of the season by Williams.

Williams FW45 technical detail

It employed a conventional front wing endplate design and an S-shaped diveplane arrangement.

Williams FW45 technical detail

A rear wing on the lower end of the downforce spectrum was used by Williams in Australia.

Williams FW45 technical detail

Comparatively, it employed a high downforce rear wing in Monaco.

Williams FW45 rear detail

A shot of the rear wing at the Spanish Grand Prix without the upper flap in place shows how it’s put together.

Williams FW45 Technical detail

A rear end shot of the FW45 in Spain shows that while the team chose a higher downforce rear wing configuration, it’s paired with just a single beam wing element. Also note the upwash swage line added to the lower half of the endplate’s outer face at the Australian Grand Prix.

Williams FW45 technical detail

As mechanics prepare the car for the Austrian Grand Prix we’re offered a decent vantage point of the bib and the damper arrangement mounted between it and the chassis.

Photo by: Filip Cleeren

Williams FW45 technical detail

An overview of the floor’s edge, with the C-shaped forward cutout and the tapering cutout in the rear portion, ahead of the tab wing and underfloor skate.

Williams FW45 technical detail

A close up of the lower downforce rear wing solution employed at the British Grand Prix.

Williams FW45 rear detail

An even lower downforce variant was chosen for the Belgian Grand Prix.

Williams Racing FW45 technical detail

A look at the rear brake assembly on the FW45 without the outer drum in place shows how the team have also employed a disc fairing here, as it has at the front of the car.

Williams FW45 technical detail

A top-down overview of the front wing with the newer specification flap distribution that was introduced at the British Grand Prix. In this specification the moveable section is much wider, resulting in a narrower static section alongside the nose.

Williams Racing FW45 technical detail

Williams’ low downforce offering for the Italian Grand Prix, along with a single beam wing element, which was also trimmed to suit the circuit's demands.

Photo by: Filip Cleeren

Williams FW45 technical detail

A close up of the floor’s leading edge and the floor fences on the FW45.

Another view of this region, albeit this time from the side, which gives more of an overview of the outer fence.

Williams used a higher downforce rear wing configuration in Qatar, in combination with a single element beam wing, which has a notably deep profile. Also note the fluted design of the upper corner of their diffuser, a feature which Red Bull applied to the RB19 during 2023.

Here’s the list of the components that Williams listed as having changed in the car presentation document prior to each race.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/williams-revered-fry-will-help-with-complete-shift-of-direction/10557546/
DATE: 2023

Fry started working at Williams in November after leaving a similar role at Alpine earlier this year, as a key figure in overhauling the team after years of underinvestment.

The former Benetton, Ferrari and McLaren man has been tasked with identifying and providing what each technical department at Grove needs for long-term success.

Fry started too late to have a drastic impact on Williams' launch car for the 2024 season, but Vowles believes that while Fry's focus is on longer-term strategy, he will soon prove valuable as the team boss tries to steer the squad into a new direction.

"I joined at a point this year where we could still have an impact on the car, but next year is really the sort of putting together of minds as to how we completely shift direction. And I'm actually really looking forward to how that turns out in four or five months' time," Vowles said.

"More so I've got Pat alongside me now. He knows how to do this, he's revered up and down the lane, ask anyone near enough and you've got a good chap in Pat.

"You're not going to change your chassis, but with the direction of travel we are in there are still things we can tune before we get to Bahrain."

Photo by: Simon Galloway /

Alex Albon, Williams Racing

Alex Albon, who scored 27 of Williams' 28 points this year, said he was excited to get someone with Fry's experience and expertise on board.

"Obviously, he's just joined the team, I think he's getting up to speed very quickly," Albon added. "I feel like he's understanding the areas we need to improve in as well, which he will offer that guidance and mentorship to the team, so I'm very excited to have him on board.

Williams finished seventh in 2023 after turning off its car development early, holding off a late challenge from a resurgent AlphaTauri.

Albon hopes that the approach will reap rewards in 2024.

"I think we've sacrificed a lot this year to get to focus on next year's car, we haven't upgraded for much longer than our rivals, he added. "That can only really be a good thing. We did the bare minimum to finish P7 and now we're eyes on to next year.

"Obviously having Pat on board [will help], and it will be James' first proper year where he's had true leadership in the development of the car, so let's see."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/albon-says-2023-was-his-strongest-season-in-f1/10555146/
DATE: 2023

Albon logged all but one of the team's 28 points, making the top 10 seven times in grands prix, and also scoring in a sprint race.

He started in the top six at Zandvoort, Monza and Las Vegas, and his only real mistake came when he spun off in Australia, although first-lap incidents in Japan and Brazil were also costly.

He frequently took advantage of the car's good straightline speed to successfully defend his position from potentially faster cars.

"I'm very proud of my performance," said Albon. "I'm not the most arrogant person I would say, but I will give myself credit, I feel like I've had a very strong season.

"I felt like most of my races haven't been simple, there have been races where we've been fighting, fighting, fighting the whole time.

"But I enjoy it. I feel that's the environment that I thrive in. For me, it's been my strongest year in F1. That connection that I have with the team has really helped that. I feel like that's where we've been able to execute everything we've done so well."

Albon acknowledged that the form of the car was inconsistent, with low downforce tracks inevitably favouring it. However, he insisted that the team always extracted the best performance on a given weekend.

Photo by: Jake Grant /

Alex Albon, Williams Racing

"It's strange, because a lot of people think we're very inconsistent, but I personally think the execution of each weekend has been very consistent," he said. "The car itself is quite inconsistent. So we know, Monza, Vegas tracks go well, for us. We know cold tracks do well for us.

"We know what tracks don't work for us, we windy tracks don't work for us, tight tracks don't work for us.

"Our car does have its moments and one of our biggest focuses next year is to stop these weaknesses in our car. But the execution has been very strong, I think, and we made the most of opportunities.

"So that's why I believe we've been able to actually get P7, I think. When we've had the car to do it, we've made sure we've scored the points. I think others have either had a blunder with strategy or whatever it may have been, just to miss out on points."

Albon is eager to see what contribution new chief technical officer Pat Fry will make to the FW46, which will also be the first car designed under the leadership of team principal James Vowles, who started earlier this year.

"Time will tell," he said of Fry. "Obviously, he's just joined the team, I think he's getting up to speed very quickly. I feel like he's understanding the areas we need to improve in as well, which he will offer that guidance and mentorship to the team. So I'm very excited to have him on board.

"And I think we've sacrificed a lot this year to get to focus on next year's car, we haven't upgraded for much longer than our rivals. That can only really be a good thing.

"We did the bare minimum to finish P7. And now we're eyes on to next year. Obviously we have Pat on board, and it will be James's first proper year where he's had true leadership in the development of the car. So let's see."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/why-williams-f1-keeping-sargeant-makes-more-sense-than-you-think/10554409/
DATE: 2023

22-0 in qualifying. 27-1 in points. Sargeant has been completely dominated by team-mate  in his first season in F1, after being promoted earlier than expected when other options to replace  fell through.

Looking purely at results, which is what F1 is all about in the end,  could have been expected to jettison the 22-year-old Floridian, who has seen flashes of promise hampered by a persistent lack of consistency.

But while extending his stay may be a pragmatic choice influenced by several factors, Vowles has put his money where his mouth is by continuing to back a driver brought in by his predecessor Jost Capito, not just through public support but by giving him a second chance.

His thinking stems from data that suggests Sargeant has been respectably close in raw potential to Albon, who has been hailed as one of the standout drivers of 2023.

Sargeant's seventh place in qualifying at Las Vegas shows what he can do if he gets his act together. He was also within a tenth of Albon at the extremely tricky Lusail circuit in Qatar, with the added difficulty of it being a sprint weekend.

But those outliers came amid a series of high-profile crashes and other slip-ups that compromised his qualifying position and increased pressure on his seat. Seeing both his Abu Dhabi Q1 laps deleted for crossing track limits, which would have been good enough for Q2, is a telling end to his rookie campaign.

But the old adage is that it is easier to make a quick driver more consistent than it is to make a slow and steady driver fast. Williams hopes that armed with a year of experience Sargeant's 2024 campaign will build on the knowledge he has gathered, having been urged to control the risks he takes rather than overdrive the car trying to keep up with a faster team-mate in Albon.

Logan Sargeant, Williams Racing

Speaking to Motorsport.com after his qualifying breakthrough in Las Vegas, Vowles said: "The worst thing you can do is go too far and overdrive the car. Now you don't know where the limit is and you don't know where to come back to either.

"He's doing an incredible job. It's hard probably to explain to the world how good a job he is doing and the growth of it. But when you come into the sport as a rookie, where you've done a few 100 kilometres of testing, it's really hard to find where the limit of yourself and the car is. And it's taken a year to get there.

"But you're now seeing the result of that and the dividends are paying off. He's really matured over the last few races."

That follows the Franz Tost school of thought, who always said that a young driver needs three years to become a proper grand prix driver. It is clear that some outliers, such as McLaren's exciting gem , buck that trend. But Sargeant finished within four points of the Australian when both drove for Prema in Formula 3, so Williams will hope he can unlock more of that potential in 2024.

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar /

Alex Albon, Williams FW45, Logan Sargeant, Williams FW45

Then there's the pragmatic side of the decision. If Williams were to replace Sargeant, then who with? Following its stellar 2018 season which featured Albon,  and , there have been fewer obvious stars of the future coming through F2, with Piastri again the one glittering exception.

Given that Williams' own Zak O'Sullivan and impressive Macau GP winner Luke Browning are nowhere near ready yet, the three drivers most deserving of a shot happen to be the ones finishing ahead of Sargeant in the 2022 championship; Felipe Drugovich, Theo Pourchaire and . But all three are tied to a rival team in Aston Martin, Sauber and Red Bull respectively.

There is no way the latter would have released Lawson given the vital role he plays as a reserve driver, keeping the pressure on  and  drivers  and  following his impressive cameo in 2023.

Perhaps Williams could have had more success trying to pry loose Drugovich or Pourchaire, with the two most recent F2 champions finding the door to F1 closed for the coming campaign.

But the risk of replacing one debutant with another is that the learning process, and all the rookie errors to come with it, will start all over again. Which is the last thing Williams needs as it fights for every point in its Vowles-led rebuild.

If there was another generational talent like Piastri waiting in the wings, then that would have been a no-brainer for Williams. But it's understandable it thought better of throwing away all the work it did with Sargeant and the continuity he offers for drivers that seem like modest upgrades at best.

Besides, it is perhaps not in the Grove team's best interests to take another team's junior on loan and develop him for its rivals. It worked with Russell, but he was loaned from  for three years, so Williams could also reap the rewards itself as he scored vital points in his third season.

But with a much more intriguing driver market shaping up for 2025 and beyond, it would have made little sense to start all over again with another rookie when more long-term options open up at the end of next year.

In the meantime, Sargeant may have been handed a lifeline that not everybody believes he deserves. Now it is up to him to repay Williams for its refreshing faith.

Logan Sargeant, Williams

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/why-p7-means-more-to-williams-than-just-the-9m-f1-prize-boost/10552521/
DATE: 2023

The Grove-based outfit had gone into the F1 finale in Abu Dhabi hoping to head off a late-season surge from closest rival  in the fight for seventh in the teams' battle.

Although  failed to score any points at a track that was not particularly well suited to its car, 's eighth-placed finish was not enough for its Italian rival to overtake it.

Speaking after the race, Vowles said that, while the prize money uptick was more than welcome, he said there was a bigger significance to the team delivering on its late-season objective.

"Probably the most important thing is that it sets the foundations for the team, that they have something to build on now," he told Motorsport.com.

"You lose out on wind tunnel time and it's not the financial element that we are particularly worried about.

"But what I wanted them to do was to stand up and go: this is the start of our journey. By the way, we're not going backwards from here. This is a new de facto standard and a spring for us."

While the estimated $9 million prize bonus for finishing seventh will not be a game-changer for Williams as it needs investment many times that to fight at the front, Vowles says that it has a wider significance for team owner Dorilton Capital.

"It always helps having money in the bank account," he said. "But I've been very open and public about the fact that we're throwing away, in terms of losses, tens of millions.

"But we're here to invest, to go back to the front, whatever that costs us in the short term.

"What it does is it pretty much helps the discussion when I'm going behind the scenes and asking for $100m more, which is the numbers we're sort of talking about. It makes a massive difference for that."

Photo by: Zak Mauger /

Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri AT04, Logan Sargeant, Williams FW45, Daniel Ricciardo, AlphaTauri AT04

The Abu Dhabi race had been a nervous one for Williams, as it was well aware that AlphaTauri's growing competitiveness had left it with a good shout of snatching P7 away.

That was further confirmed when Tsunoda qualified sixth and, gunning for a one-stop strategy, even led the race at one point.

Vowles insisted that his emotions remained calm throughout the grand prix, despite the result being on a knife-edge.

"I oddly enough don't really get nervous in races, albeit Netflix were filming me," he said.

"I'm pretty sure my expressions at some points aren't going to be the best, but the conclusion I came to before the race even started is whatever happened I was proud of what we have achieved up until this point.

"We must remember that we cut off development before any other team on the grid and then I asked the team to please, by the way, finish seventh. And to do that, to do that by a matter of points tells me a) we made the right decisions and b) that the team has worked really well together to be where we are.

"We can't ignore the fact that AlphaTauri were leading the race on the strategy they chose, and they were quick. So, to finish ahead of them is a proud moment for me."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/williams-can-have-no-regrets-amid-9m-alphatauri-f1-battle-albon/10550804/
DATE: 2023

The Grove-based outfit is heading into the F1 season finale in Abu Dhabi seven points ahead of  in the fight for seventh place in the constructors' contest.

But with AlphaTauri having made impressive gains with its car since a major upgrade arrived at the Singapore Grand Prix, the buffer offers no guarantee to  that it can hold on.

The battle is a significant one because the F1 prize money teams receive each year is based on their finishing position in the points table.

While the final prize money on offer depends on the total sum of commercial rights income F1 receives, the gaps between the different positions can be estimated.

Based on information from insiders, if the prize pot distributed among teams is $1 billion, then the share between the seventh and eighth teams is around $ 9 million.

This is because the seventh-placed team takes 8.7% of the total prize pot, with the eighth-placed squad receiving 7.8%.

But, while Albon says the extra income from finishing seventh, as well as a better position in the paddock, would be hugely welcome at Williams, the team should have no regrets if it loses out in the end as the result of having switched off its 2023 car development early.

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Alex Albon, Williams FW45

"We're pretty self-confident in ourselves that we've done the right thing," he said.

"We've talked about it enough, but we have stopped our development for a long time now and, if we lose out for what we're focusing on for next year, it's not going to be a kicking yourself moment. I do think we're going to see the rewards next year."

Asked by Motorsport.com about the importance of finishing ahead of AlphaTauri, Albon said: "Money talks.

"We can say it doesn't really affect us, but of course we're racers, everyone's a racer in the team, and we all care about what position we finish.

"That walk into the pitlane [down to the Williams motorhome] is a little bit too long at the minute, and one position already makes a difference. So, let's see."

While Williams has a committed owner in Dorilton Capital, Albon says that any boost to income would assist the squad in its ambitions to move forward.

"It will help the team, and it will speed up the development of the team as well," he said. "Dorilton put the cash in, and it would benefit everyone if they had to put it in a bit less.

Photo by: Simon Galloway /

Alex Albon, Williams Racing

"So, there's a big drive and a big want this weekend to finish in P7. It's clearly our number one priority coming into the weekend."

With the Williams car having had big performance swings this year, Albon says the achievement of the squad in finishing seventh would be impressive.

"I'm very proud of what we've achieved at the team," he said. "I think about the races that we've scored points in, and we haven't had really a smooth race where we've just gone: that was nice. I wish we had more of them.

"Unfortunately, a lot of them are holding up a bunch of cars behind us, which is what we've become renowned for.

"The car has improved a lot from last year. We're going into every weekend feeling like there's a chance to score points. But, even in that case, our race pace is not always that great. And yet we still come away with good points.

"I think Melbourne was the only race where I felt like I missed an opportunity to score points. But every other race we've done this year, when there's been a chance, we've done it and I think that's been the main difference against our rivals."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/sargeant-i-still-dont-know-if-ive-done-enough-to-secure-2024-williams-f1-seat/10550543/
DATE: 2023

The American driver has endured a tough rookie season that has included a spate of crashes, while his team-mate  has scored a series of points finishes.

The  seat alongside Albon for 2024 is the only remaining theoretically open slot, with the team opting to wait until the current campaign has concluded before making its call on Sargeant's future.

The 22-year-old was promoted to F1 for the 2023 season after a year as a Williams junior driver racing in Formula 2.

Williams set Sargeant targets for the current campaign's final events that revolved around delivering complete weekend performances and balancing risk versus reward, rather than overdelivering.

In the season run in, he has scored his first F1 point after being promoted to 10th in the final classification at Austin following  and  being disqualified there, and qualified a career best seventh at last weekend's race in Las Vegas.

Sargeant went on to finish in 16th after struggling with tyre graining on a tricky one-stop strategy compared to rivals that gained stopping under that race's second safety car period.

Photo by: Jake Grant /

Logan Sargeant, Williams FW45

When asked in the pre-event press conference for this weekend's Abu Dhabi event if he was confident of being retained for 2024 following his Vegas qualifying result, Sargeant replied: "It's a good question – honestly, I don't know.

"But for me it's just a case of taking it race by race. I feel like, from a driving point of view, everything has been getting much better in the past I don't know however many rounds.

"I'm just trying to do my job to the best I can. And I think with how it's been going recently, I don't see any issues."

Sargeant went on to explain that he would pick his Vegas qualifying result as the highlight of his rookie F1 season over getting his first point.

He feels he would "definitely [pick] the quali in Vegas, for sure" as his moment of 2023 because he was "able to finally put it together over three qualifying sessions".

"[That] was really nice," he added. "Helped by the fact that we had a quick car in Vegas, for sure. But that was definitely very much the highlight."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/albon-fulfilled-scary-expectations-las-vegas-form/10548727/
DATE: 2023

Ahead of the event  that the long straights and low ambient temperatures would favour the FW45 relative to Williams' rivals.

From the start of track action he figured at the sharp end, taking sixth in FP3 despite contact with the wall that led to a red flag and a premature end for the session.

After that Albon admitted he took time to build up his confidence and get back up to speed in qualifying.

However he was sixth in Q2 and again in Q3, with  backing him up in seventh in the latter. Both men gain a place on the final grid from ’s penalty.

Asked by Motorsport.com if he’d done better than expected Albon replied: “Yeah, I would say so.

“Possibly some cars didn't get it right, so always flatters you a little bit more, but we executed very well.

“It's sometimes a bit scary, you always talk about Vegas coming up, because it's the track that's going to suit you.

“We've done three or four races now which we knew weren't going to suit us. So there's a bit of expectation and pressure to deliver from the whole team. And we've delivered that, so very happy.

“It is one of those tracks that was always going to suit us efficiency-wise, because even more slippery than Monza, and that proved it.

“Logan also had an amazing qualifying session, I think, because the car has been good. And it is about now trying to finish the job [in the race].”

While the straightline speed of the  will to some degree help to protect its drivers from attack in the race Albon made it clear that Saturday evening will be all about tyres.

“If there's graining, anyone can be overtaken,” he said. “When the graining comes in, the cars are going about a second, a second and a half a lap slower. And then you're vulnerable to everyone.

“The trick is to not get the graining and that's not that easy. We had quite bad graining on Friday. We did some set-up changes, which maybe went against the qualifying car, but focused more on the race car. Hopefully that will help us.”

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/williams-las-vegas-f1-qualifying-can-be-turning-point-for-sargeant/10548424/
DATE: 2023

Sargeant endured a difficult debut season with Williams, showing flashes of promise that were punctuated by rookie mistakes in his ambitious quest to try and get on par with a high-flying Alex Albon.

While some errors led to headline-grabbing crashes, others flew under the radar but cost the Floridian a better qualifying position, putting him on the backfoot that left him without points until last month's US Grand Prix.

But in recent weeks, Sargeant has shown a much steadier approach, which he was able to convert into seventh place on the grid on a Las Vegas street circuit that suited the efficient Williams much better than the preceding events.

In Q2 and Q3 he stayed within two tenths of Albon, who qualified one place ahead, after being a tenth quicker in Q1.

Speaking to Motorsport.com/Autosport, Vowles hopes Sargeant's seventh place, which will become sixth on the grid after Carlos Sainz's penalty, can be a turning point regardless of the outcome of Saturday's race.

"I hope so. I think certainly, when you score your first point, it creates a turning point for you," he said.

"When you start performing against your team-mate that is one of the best in the world and be within a few tenths, and against everyone else on the grid, then you find another turning point.

"This gives you the confidence to know that you have the ability required."

Vowles had specifically tasked Sargeant with doing a better job in balancing risk versus reward rather than trying to overdeliver, which he feels the 22-year-old has been able to achieve.

Photo by: Jake Grant /

Logan Sargeant, Williams FW45

"One of the most important things is having the confidence that you deserve your place within the top 20 of best drivers in the world and deliver lap after lap. And he did that today," he explained.

"There's a few reasons why. First of all, at every track we've gone to this year someone has done laps before. It's the first time here, so you can remove his rookie status. No one's done a single lap around here.

"The second is that he's really matured over the last few races. You can see there are no mistakes, just clean execution and build-up across the weekend. This weekend is an exact example of that as well, he just built it up and started pushing the risk factor more and more.

He added: "He's doing an incredible job and it's hard probably to explain to the world how good a job he is doing.

"It's taken a year to get there, but you're now seeing the result of that and the dividends are paying off."

Sargeant's relief at finally putting his car on the grid position it deserves was evident from his joyous outburst on the team radio, and he was still beaming when asked if this was his best weekend performance in F1 so far.

"So far, absolutely," Sargeant replied. "It means a lot after putting so much hard work into trying to be able to do these things. And it's very irritating when in the past rounds you see that potential, but you don't do it."

"I don't think we could have done a whole lot more today, so hats off to everyone in the team. We knew this weekend was a good opportunity. And we're off to the right start."

Additional reporting by Mandy Curi

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/alex-albon-williams-cold-las-vegas-f1-race/10546135/
DATE: 2023

Albon expects that the lower temperatures and long straights should both play to the strengths of the FW45.

With qualifying commencing at midnight and the race itself starting at 10pm ambient temperature is expected to be in the 5-10C range.

"For Vegas, the stars should hopefully align," said Albon when asked about the race by Motorsport.com. "It's a track that should suit us in terms of its layout, but it should also suit us in terms of its temperature.

"So qualifying is going to be a real big interest I think for everyone to try to get the tyres to work in that temperature. That really won't be easy. But that suits us much more."

Albon conceded that the one drawback could be that some corners could promote front-locking, which has been a weakness of the  package this year.

He also noted that the team simulator hasn't necessarily given a complete picture of what the actual track surface is like.

"It's quite a simple circuit in terms of its layout, it's quite easy to learn," he said. "The track is quite interesting, there's quite a few combined corners, which are not easy for front-locking, which is not great for our car, but that's fine.

"The one thing which will be interesting is the roughness and the bumps of the track, how well of a job have they done or not.

"And also, I think in terms of racing, there's going to be a lot of overtakes, because at least from what I drove, there's a lot of opportunities, a lot of places you can overtake. So let's see, but it's okay. I actually didn't mind it."

Alex Albon, Williams FW45

However, Albon qualified his expectations for overtaking by indicating that the corners preceding the straights could be too slow.

"In its layout, the straights are absolutely massive," he said. "For example, Mexico, there should be more overtaking than there is. I mean, there is a massive straight. But the way that the Sector 3 is designed is not good for racing. And so it's so hard to stay close out of the last corner.

"There's one example of that in Vegas, where technically there should be an overtaking spot straight, but the corners before don't allow you to say that close.

"Everyone thinks it's the high-speed corners that it's harder to stay close. And it's not, it's really the low-speed corners that we struggle to stay close, because the front end in these cars is so difficult, especially when the cars are so heavy.

"As soon as you lose the front in the low speed, you're gone. But in Vegas, especially coming out of the last corner into Turn 1, it's a corner that's not that hard to stay close. So I think you'll get quite a lot of overtaking. I hope it's not too easy."

Albon's team-mate , for whom Las Vegas will be a third home race, is also optimistic about prospects for the weekend.

"These high temperatures don't help us," said the American. "I think especially for Vegas, to have low temperatures, night race, low drag, hopefully it works.

"For me, it's going to be a really cool one, obviously. I raced there so many times as a kid in karting, so to come back, it's going to be amazing. It always treated me well in the past, so hopefully that will continue this year."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/albon-final-races-about-williams-holding-on-in-f1-battle-for-p7/10541906/
DATE: 2023

The Grove team switched its R&D focus to next year’s some months ago and had not brought any new parts to the track, while rivals , Haas and  have continued to develop their cars.

In the last two races, AlphaTauri has scored 11 points and jumped from 10th to eighth in the table, and the team now lies 12 points behind .

Albon accepts that there remains a chance that the Faenza outfit could close the gap over the last three weekends of the season.

"I think the threat is very real,” said Albon when asked by Motorsport.com about AlphaTauri’s surge in the fight for seventh place.

“They put on their upgrade, and I think straight away made a big step, and at the same time, they seemed to unlock it more and more through the year.

“So they've overtaken us in terms of pace, that it's pretty clear. They've gone to a couple of tracks, and I think this track will be another example, that suits their car quite well. They seem to be very strong in low-speed corners. So it's going be tough.

“The last few races are more about holding on than anything else. But you don't want to have that mindset. You still want to be aggressive and push on. But it will be tricky.”

Photo by: Mark Sutton /

Yuki Tsunoda, AlphaTauri AT04, Alex Albon, Williams FW45, Nico Hulkenberg, Haas VF-23

Despite the apparent change in the late-season pecking order, Albon maintained that he still has faith in the decision to look towards 2024.

“We've taken the choice to just stop upgrading our car since we put on the upgrade, which was in Canada,” he said.

“And so for us, a lot of it's now about next year. Of course, it would be a shame to lose out to P7. But I still think it's the right thing to do.

"We still have a competitive car, even if it's not as competitive, let's say, or it sounds weird to say it, but it's a little bit old, even though it's four months old or whatever it is!”

Albon took encouragement from the last race in Mexico, where his ninth place helped to cancel out two of the six points that AlphaTauri's  secured for seventh.

“Mexico is a really good example of what we need to do for the rest of the year,” he said. “We need to take advantage of opportunities when they come.

“I felt like in Mexico we executed everything as well as we could have done, to the point where we only missed out by four points to Daniel instead of six, if we didn't score points.

“Races like that are basically what's made our season so far. And we're going to have to continue to do that for the rest of the year."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/who-is-driving-at-the-2025-f1-abu-dhabi-post-season-test/10783370/
DATE: 2025

The 2025 Formula 1 competitive season may be over, but track activity is not: all 20 cars will be in action in  on Tuesday.

Each team will have one mule car driven by one or both race drivers, featuring Pirelli’s new range of rubber for the 2026 season, with slightly smaller and narrower tyres.

Even the tyres’ construction will be significantly different due to F1’s new technical regulations. When Pirelli asked all F1 teams to submit their predicted downforce levels for the end of 2026, there was much disparity between their simulations.

“It was more difficult for teams to estimate the performance of their 2026 cars at the end of the season,” Pirelli’s Mario Isola explained. “But we needed those simulations because we needed to design a product that is lasting for one year. If they just give us an idea of the car performance at the start of the season, and if we don't know what the rate of development will be, then it's difficult for us.”

Pirelli has therefore developed a broad spectrum of compounds, in case the real-world downforce levels turn out to be higher or lower than predicted by the teams.

The mule cars are 2025-spec machinery that has been modified to drop down closer to next year’s much lower downforce levels, though it cannot be fully accurate, partly because the 2026 cars will feature active aerodynamics.

“We have discussed some limitations with the teams, based on those first tests,” Isola added. “For example, we decided to avoid overloading the tyres on the straights. We were testing with a speed limit at 290km/h or 300km/h, because clearly they will have a lot less downforce on the straights next year. So we agreed on some methodologies for testing with the teams. Thanks to these methodologies it was possible to have feedback from the mule cars that was a little bit more coherent, more close.”

Valtteri Bottas, Mercedes, Mexico Pirelli Test

The test won’t change the 2026 compounds in any case, as the tyres have already been homologated for next season; it will simply help Pirelli choose the compounds for next year.

The Italian manufacturer has brought all compounds to Yas Marina Circuit except for the hardest dry-weather tyre, the C1, and the full-wet.

Meanwhile, the other 10 cars will be driven by rookies as part of the traditional end-of-season young drivers’ test. Only competitors with two grand prix starts or fewer are allowed to take part.

A number of 2025 race drivers will be skipping Tuesday's test.

This includes outgoing Red Bull racer  as well as his team-mate  and Mercedes' , with those teams giving all the track time to youngsters  and  respectively. Verstappen said he was “very happy” to miss out.

will field only , with  missing out.

will be the only test driver handling a mule car, with neither  nor  in action for Aston Martin – which is no surprise as far as the Spanish veteran is concerned, as he was looking forward to not driving the AMR25 any longer.

Ryo Hirakawa, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Many teams will field the same rookie as they did in Free Practice 1.

F2 frontrunners Dino Beganovic, Luke Browning and Jak Crawford will drive for the ,  and Aston Martin squads they are linked to.

Another F2 driver will be in action with his parent outfit,  at Alpine; the Enstone-based outfit will again loan out  to .

Now racing in IMSA with Cadillac,  reserve driver  will drive the Silver Arrow, while Toyota WEC driver and Haas reserve driver  will drive the VF-25.

Red Bull will entrust its protege  with the RB21 after the Japanese racer won the Super Formula championship. 2025 IndyCar runner-up and long-time  driver  will handle the title-winning F1 car.

Most importantly,  will gain important experience ahead of his graduation to Formula 1 with  in 2026.

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/carlos-sainz-lando-norris-proves-you-can-be-the-nice-guy-and-f1-champion/10783161/
DATE: 2025

congratulated his former  team-mate  for claiming his first drivers' championship title.

The Spanish driver partnered Norris at McLaren when they both joined the team together in 2019 before Sainz moved to  in 2021. The driver duo quickly became a fan favourite, assuming the title "Carlando".

The  driver made a point of making his way onto the grid following the race to congratulate his former team-mate and friend.

"Yeah, honestly, very happy for him. I think he's a great F1 driver. I think unbelievably fast," Sainz told the media after the race. "But with his particular way of going about life and things, as much as he's got criticised a lot during the last few years for being how he is, he's world champion and everyone can keep dreaming about being F1 world champion while he goes about his own way and does things his own way.

"So I'm extremely happy for him because he must have felt a lot of pressure over the last few weekends and he managed to pull it off."

Sainz explained he saw how "extremely quick" Norris was when he joined him at the Woking outfit.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Kym Illman / Getty Images

"Very happy for him as a driver because he's always been an extremely quick driver, quicker than what people give him credit for, extremely talented," he told Sky Sports F1.

"The first years at McLaren, I saw a guy who had the speed to be multiple world champion if it was purely down to speed.

"Along the way, he's developed his skills a lot and now he's a world champion.

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

"More than anything, I'm happy for him as a person because he's a driver that doesn't follow the typical stereotypes of a world champion. He's always stayed true to himself, very honest, very open about his own struggles, and proven to everyone you can be world champion being a nice guy, that you don't have to be ruthless or badass.

"Happy for him. I hope he stays the same, that it doesn't get in his head that he's world champion and he keeps being himself, or even if he relaxes more, and can enjoy F1 more.

"He must have suffered a bit this year with all the social media pressure, journalism pressure from criticising him when he was struggling in the first half, then when Max was getting close. It's never easy to be world champion with Max breathing down his neck but he's kept it more or less under control."

What would you like to see on Motorsport.com?

- The Motorsport.com Team
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-race-1126198/1126199/
DATE: 2025

I think that's a good place to leave it. Make sure to keep an eye out for our other post-race reaction, but let's give you one more Lando pic because this is his moment.

And who knows if he'll go back-to-back, because everything promises to look a lot different in the new era.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Michael Potts / LAT Images via Getty Images

Norris added on Sky: "I have to give it to Oscar, he's driven incredible. At some point he's going to get the better of me."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

More from an emotional Norris on Sky: "It's pretty cool. It's pretty insane. It's hard for me just to say it. I feel like I don't want to say it just yet, I'll wake up tomorrow and say it. It's been a season of ups and downs - has it been a perfect season? Absolutely not. Has it been by anybody? No.

"I'm happy I cried. Not many things in my life have made me cry, but today was one."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Rose / Formula 1 via Getty Images

It was all tears in parc ferme.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Andrea Stella, McLaren

Photo by: Bryn Lennon / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Sky now showing a montage of Norris' career up to now. It's mad where the time has gone!

World champion at the age of 26 in his seventh season of F1.

This is a very sweet interview with Lando's mum on Sky. Speaks of watching her grandchild in the Nativity play on Tuesday before flying to Abu Dhabi on Thursday. Mentions of Lando being in the garden driving the tractor as a kid, before Hamilton is caught in the media pen congratulating Norris.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Rudy Carezzevoli / Getty Images

Lando's mum on Sky Sports: "Emotionally drained, but very happy."

He'll be looking at a much bigger trophy soon...

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Rose / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

The Stella-Brown bromance!

Andrea Stella, McLaren, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Carlos Sainz: "Very happy for him. I think he's a great F1 driver. I think unbelievably fast.

"But with his particular way of going about life and things, as much as he's got criticised a lot during the last few years for being how he is, he's world champion and everyone can keep dreaming about being F1 world champion while he goes about his own way and does things his own way.

"So I'm extremely happy for him because he must have felt a lot of pressure over the last few weekends and he managed to pull it off."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

It's times like this where pictures speak a thousand words

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Brown going over to man he once compared to a villain from a horror film...

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando and his bosses.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Andrea Stella, McLaren, Zak Brown, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Zak Brown: "If you beat Max and Red Bull, you've done a great job."

He then adds that Piastri is a "future world champion".

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Let's hear more from Lando.

"It's incredible. Pretty surreal. I dreamed of this for a long, long time - everyone does - a lot goes into a season like this. A lot of ups, a lot of downs, but none of that matters if you try to come out on top. The last seven, eight years I've been with McLaren, the last 17, 18 years of my life I've been chasing this dream.

"My best performances this year came when I needed them the most."

The moment Lando crossed the line to become champion.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

But queue the champagne, as Norris does his trademark celebration as a world champion for the first time!

Piastri lifts the runner-up trophy on the podium. It does look like he's trying to put on a brave face - a penny for his thoughts etc.

PR email of the day, dropped almost the second the grand prix finished. A street in Somerset, Lando's home county, will be named in his honour. It's almost like they had that planned and ready to go!

Lifts his head up to the sky as a Formula 1 world champion...

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Here comes the podium as world champion Lando Norris is first to greet the steps!

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

The second Autosport young driver winner to win the F1 world championship after Jenson Button...

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

Norris: "I've not cried in a while. DIdn't think I'd cry but I did. It's a long journey, a long journey."

Speaking of the championship, here is how the top three finishes:

1. Lando Norris - 423 points

2. Max Verstappen - 421 points

3. Oscar Piastri - 410 points

It's hugmania on that pit straight. Zak, Sainz, Russell, mechanics, family, all wanting a bit of Lando.

But the cameras did catch a nice moment when Norris' mum headed over to Piastri to console the other McLaren driver, who finishes this year third in the championship.

As is customary in Abu Dhabi, Norris is now doing doughnuts down the start-finish straight...

Verstappen: "I'm definitely not disappointed. I'm proud of everyone, we never give up."

A tearful Norris: "I love you guys, thanks for everything - you deserve it. I love you mum, I love you dad."

Camera pans straight to the McLaren garage, where Lando's mum is crying. These moments are the ones to savour...

LANDO NORRIS IS THE 2025 FORMULA 1 WORLD CHAMPION
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-live-commentary-and-updates-qualifying/1126190/
DATE: 2025

That's us for now! We shall be back for race day when a world champion will be crowned...

Piastri: "The last lap in Q3 was pretty good, there's wasn't a lot left in that. Max has looked very quick in the long runs, let's see how much pace is a factor tomorrow."

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

Norris: "Max did a good job, so congrats to him. We did everything we could, my lap was pretty good so I'm happy. We just weren't fast enough today."

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

Verstappen: "Of course incredibly happy to be in first, that's the only thing we can do."

Should he win tomorrow then he will match Hamilton's record of five Abu Dhabi GP victories.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Peter Fox / Getty Images

That also means Verstappen finishes the year with the most poles of any driver:

Verstappen - 8Norris - 7Piastri - 6Russell - 2Leclerc - 1

Max Verstappen is on pole for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, beating runner-up Lando Norris by 0.201s - sublime pace from the Red Bull driver, who even improved on his second lap without a tow.

Oscar Piastri is third but, I'm sure to Max's dismay, George Russell is only fourth. As it stands, Norris is world champion.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Two sectors down and neither McLaren driver is faster than Max...

Looks like there won't be any tow with Max going out before Tsunoda. Russell is eyeing one up from the world champion though and maybe Max will willingly give him one if it means getting the Mercedes man above Norris...

So it's Verstappen on provisional pole while team-mate Tsunoda is 10th. One does wonder what Red Bull does with Yuki in these final runs. Is it worth making him do a proper lap, or just give Max another tow?

Piastri splits the pair but Russell only manages fifth. Good job by Verstappen, but he needs more help from his rivals to push Norris down.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

It allows the four-time champion to set a 1m22.295s and it is four tenths quicker than Norris. Wow!

Though it must be said Lando was on used softs with Verstappen on fresh.

Tsunoda gives Verstappen a tow in sector two. Think that was planned don't you?

Here we are, the final quali session of the year and it's actually looking too close to call right now!

Antonelli had complaints about the rear but everything was clearly fine for team-mate Russell, who topped the session.

Verstappen was just 0.022s behind with Norris 0.074s off top!

George Russell, Mercedes

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

But that is Q2 now done and the bottom five is as follows:

Piastri was quickest in Q1 but he's survived a Q2 scare finishing just eighth and less than a tenth above the drop zone!

Quite a busy end to the session this and looks like Leclerc has now removed himself from danger, climbing up to a provisional fifth from 10th.

Well that's a busy pitlane! Everybody queuing up to get a final lap completed in these last four minutes.

Mercedes is looking good, but don't think Red Bull can rely on Ferrari to get in front of McLaren with Hamilton out in Q1 and Leclerc only 10th. The Scuderia didn't have a great FP3 either and Charles said the only positive of Friday was sharing the track with his brother Arthur.

Norris is loving that final sector because quite a few times now it's turned a good lap into a very good one. He's currently third and 0.074s off top with the fastest sector three time.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Not sure that's the record Hamilton had in mind when he joined Ferrari!

Hulkenberg's Q1 exit means him and team-mate Bortoleto will finish the year 15-15 for qualifying sessions in 2025. This is 12-12 without sprint weekends.

Absolute level pecking.

He's a lonely man out there as Verstappen is the only driver on track. Come on everyone, it's already started...

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

Quick turnaround: we're back for Q2 and Verstappen is first out.

But that's that for Q1 with Hamilton, Albon, Hulkenberg, Gasly and Colapinto all being eliminated.

Celebrations for Piastri though, as he was close to three tenths quickest with Verstappen second and Antonelli in third. Norris sixth.

"Every time mate, I'm so sorry," was Hamilton's reaction.

But here is a shock, well it would have been a year ago, as Lewis Hamilton suffers a Q1 exit for the third consecutive race.

The winter break cannot come quick enough for the seven-time champion...

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images

Colapinto also puts in a lap not good enough so it's a double Alpine Q1 elimination - pretend to be shocked!

Speaking of the bottom five, Gasly improves but not by much so he is out.

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / LAT Images via Getty Images

Wasn't the best lap for Lando though, as the championship leader has since dropped to fifth. But quite frankly, who cares? It's only Q1 and what matters is the bottom five.

Whether it was or not is another matter, but it's done the trick as McLaren goes 1-2. Big advantage to Piastri as well!

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Rudy Carezzevoli / Getty Images

New softs for both McLaren cars - was that really needed?

Just five minutes remain in Q1 and cars are coming back out for their final runs. It's certainly a close grid with the top 18 within eight tenths of each other.

Well, Bearman's Haas is looking good because Ocon is currently in the dropzone.

Albon, Leclerc, Gasly and Colapinto are the others in the bottom five with Leclerc and Gasly having used the mediums. Seems a bit of a strange choice that one.

We mentioned earlier that Hamilton also started on the mediums, but he's since switched to softs and is fifth.

Go on Bearman! That Haas is looking good today with the rookie currently second in Q1 after finishing seventh, one spot behind team-mate Ocon, in FP3.

Oliver Bearman, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

More lap times are coming in now and Verstappen goes fastest with a 1m23.325s. It was only yesterday that he complained of struggles with his pace.

Back to the action, interesting choice of tyre for Hamilton and Gasly as both are on mediums with the rest on softs. Looks like they're hoping to save a fresh set of the red-stripped rubber.

So the pole position award will be presented by Benson Boone. Right, time for Google to come in handy...

Never fear Hamilton fans, as he's out on track for Q1 with his car having recovered from his FP3 crash.

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari crash

Photo by: Mark Thompson / Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp3-1126182/1126183/
DATE: 2025

And that's all from us for now! We'll be back a little bit later to guide you qualifying as it happens - please do join us again!

That's it for practice sessions this year. Just the small matter of qualifying and the race to go...

Photo by: Ronald Vording

Verstappen improves slightly with his last lap of the session, now just 0.124s off Russell and 0.120s off Norris.

Russell leads the session, then - so Mercedes is very much in the fight for pole here.

Ocon's found a good time to get up to sixth, perhaps he's found a fix for his braking woes. As it stands, the top 17 is all within 0.8s.

Norris can't quite improve either, despite improvement in the opening two sectors.

Some damage to Tsunoda's sidepod and floor, so he's ended up coming back in. Albon had ringside seats for the incident.

"The car still jumps, I can't keep my feet on the pedals," Verstappen reports.

The McLarens go out for a second set of laps on the same softs - Piastri is a smidgen slower than his previous effort.

Antonelli drove out of the pitlane and straight into the path of Tsunoda - which has caused damage to the Italian's front wing.

Better news for Mercedes is that Russell has gone to the top, 0.004s up on Norris. Verstappen goes third fastest, 0.180s off Russell's effort.

Bortoleto was matching Norris through that lap, as was Alonso - but their final sector times were well down on that of Norris.

You can get close in those opening sectors, as they're mainly affected by the braking into Turns 5, 6, and 7. But the final sector is the difficult bit.

Norris looked unsteady through Turn 6 and 7, and has to correct himself. He's down on Piastri out of the opening two sectors, but finds a monster final sector to post a 1m23.338s.

Hulkenberg's on a quick lap too, although has a small correction in the final sector - thus, he's 0.532s down.

Verstappen does a 1m24.116s, while Tsunoda aborts his lap.

But Piastri demonstrates the worth of those new tyres, and posts a 1m23.593s to go top by some margin.

Here we are - fresh softs for Piastri, Norris, and Stroll. Verstappen's on a swift one as we speak...

And we go again, 17 minutes on the clock. Nobody has gone out on fresh tyres, so perhaps they're saving a final set of softs until the final 10 minutes or so.

Alright, we're ready to go - almost. We'll restart in a minute's time.

We're just waiting for the go-ahead while Hamilton's car gets picked out of the Tecpro barrier - and, of course, for the barrier to be sorted.

Bit of repair work for Ferrari to do too, as the front-right suspension is hanging on by a thread.

Hamilton was on a quick lap and, on the turn-in to Turn 9 at the end of the second back stretch, the rear just went out from under him.

"Something buckled at the front and snapped the rear," Hamilton reported, as he gets out of the car.

Hamilton spins at Turn 9 and goes into the wall!

Bearman posts another lap, 0.086s off Verstappen's benchmark. He's been quick all weekend so far.

McLaren has more to find on its subsequent runs, although both drivers did their first soft-tyre laps relatively early into the session compared to those in the top five. Mercedes too, as Russell's only 13th and Antonelli's 17th.

Hamilton hits a 1m24.470s to go fastest, but is beaten by Verstappen by 0.225s. Stroll sets a time just 0.059s off Verstappen's effort.

Tsunoda, after that near-miss, splits the two Saubers - who are currently sixth and eighth.

Woah! Norris came across a very slow Tsunoda on the exit of Turn 11, and very nearly resulted in the two coming together.

Shades of Rosberg and Karthikeyan in the 2012 race there, when the then-Mercedes driver saw the HRT too late.

Norris sets a 1m24.533s on his second run on those softs. Tsunoda is up to second - or was, as Leclerc, then Bearman, go up to P2 - Bearman just 0.008s off.

Piastri is 0.595s off Norris at the present moment, in fifth. Laps coming in thick and fast now.

Both Aston Martin drivers have been given a €25,000 fine for not appearing at a scheduled fan engagement activity - with €15,000 of that suspended for 12 months.

The team had apparently said to both drivers that their appearances weren't required due to them stepping back for Jak Crawford and Cian Shields in FP1. Aston Martin has offered to make it up to the fans by making both drivers available for an appearance later this weekend.

Norris sets a 1m24.728s, so the circuit's not quite where it was at the end of yesterday.

But we expect it to ramp up a bit towards the end of the session. Leclerc does a time and goes second fastest, but he's over a second off Norris.

Here comes one of the big hitters, as Lando Norris breaks onto the circuit. Charles Leclerc also arrives on the scene.

Gasly has set a 1m25.984s, and Colapinto with a 1m26.591s, with our first timed laps of the season.

Colapinto and Gasly hit the road now, on Renault's final F1 weekend as an engine supplier...for now.

It's not the first time we've said that - Renault left at the end of 1986 and 1997 - and in both cases, returned within five years.

The works Renault engine teams Williams and Benetton

Photo by: Motorsport Images

It's still just the Aston Martin duo doing their laps around the circuit. Both Alonso and Stroll were summoned to the stewards for missing the fan engagement activities earlier on today.

I'm sure they had more important things to do, Aston Martin's drivers really don't need distractions right now as they battle for *checks notes* seventh in the constructors' championship.

Here we go, two Aston Martins going out for their weekly tyre scrub.

In the meantime, we've got F1's car performance graphic on the screen, which almost certainly means nothing.

...but no takers just yet. Limited tyres across a weekend, of course, so teams don't want to go out just yet.

Give it a few minutes.

And here's your weather watch: it's 27C and a little cloudy out there, with 38C track temperature.

It's the last chance for our 20 drivers to get acquainted to their cars over a practice session, before we get into qualifying later on.

We'll see if there's any big overnight changes - did McLaren and Red Bull find anything extra, and will Mercedes supply a bit more of a challenge, or will Haas and Sauber continue to surprise?

Esteban Ocon, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Max Verstappen is currently feeling pessimistic about his Abu Dhabi Grand Prix chances as Red Bull lacks pace to McLaren at the 2025 Formula 1 title showdown.

The four-time world champion finished runner-up to McLaren championship leader Lando Norris in both FP1 (+0.008s) and FP2 (+0.363s) on Friday at Yas Marina Circuit.

It comes during the season finale where Norris simply needs a podium finish to claim a maiden title, as he is 12 points ahead of Verstappen and 16 above team-mate Oscar Piastri.

Lando Norris ended the final Friday practice session of 2025 on top of the FP2 standings at the Formula 1 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, over three tenths clear of Max Verstappen - as Oscar Piastri was only 11th.

Hello everyone, and welcome back to our coverage of practice at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.

And it's the last practice session of the season, before we get into the business end of the year-long title battle.

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp2-1126167/1126168/
DATE: 2025

That's all from us, we shall be back for FP3 tomorrow.

As we start wrapping up this live commentary, I'll hit you with this stat.

Max Verstappen could become the fourth driver to have won the F1 title without leading the championship at any point during the season.

John Surtees (1964), James Hunt (1976) and Sebastian Vettel (2010) are those to have done it up to now.

Sebastian Vettel, Red Bull Racing RB6

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar / Motorsport Images

The session may be over but it's a busy track, because no doubt we'll start seeing some practice starts.

That's that then! The perfect day for Norris, who topped FP1 and FP2 with title rival Verstappen second in both. Piastri, meanwhile, nowhere near having skipped FP1 before finishing 11th in second practice.

Lando Norris, McLaren

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

An interesting look at laps completed in FP2 and Verstappen, Albon and Lawson lead the way with 29. Ocon has completed the least on 24.

Bit of a boring end to the session with cars just going through their respective programmes. As predicted earlier, the leaderboard hasn't really changed in the last 10 minutes.

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Gabriel Bortoleto: "Who's this Ferrari?"

Jose Manuel Lopez: "Leclerc...the big Leclerc."

Bit of a funny exchange between Bortoleto and his Sauber race engineer after encountering the Ferrari on track.

It comes as FP1 saw both Charles and Arthur Leclerc drive for Ferrari as part of F1's young driver rule. Lewis Hamilton is now back though, but has spent much of FP2 in the bottom half.

Arthur Leclerc, Scuderia Ferrari

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

"Don't think he's totally dialled in yet, but he'll get there," Zak Brown tells Sky Sports regarding Piastri.

For the sake of a dramatic title showdown, let's hope he does because he's been nowhere in this FP2 session.

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

Cars are back out and many are onto the harder compounds as expected. They'll be going through their long-run programmes now and so it's unlikely that the leaderboard will change much in the final 15 minutes.

Once again, good from Sauber which is fifth and sixth in this session after finishing fifth and seventh in FP1.

Hulkenberg and Bortoleto seem to be giving Peter Sauber a good send-off before the Audi takeover next year.

Gabriel Bortoleto, Sauber

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

"I don't know how it's so good," reported a jubilant Bearman, who is fourth in his Haas. Don't sound so surprised Oli, you did finish fourth in Mexico not long ago!

Looks like the hectic soft-tyre window is now coming to a close with half the grid back in their respective garages. Happy days for Lando and Max, but not Oscar.

Does it get better for Oscar on his second run? Not really, he remains 10th and was seven tenths off on that lap after a lock up at Turn 7. A lot of work to be done for the Aussie, who was once in complete command of this championship.

Although, Piastri didn't have a great first run on the softs as he is six tenths off the pace with reports of balance issues...

Oscar Piastri, McLaren

Photo by: Steven Tee / LAT Images via Getty Images

And now Norris goes fastest with the softs, ahead of Verstappen and Russell. So yes, sort of similar to FP1 in that the usual frontrunners are now at the front in this soft-tyre window.

Speaking of soft-tyre runs, Red Bull has fitted a set onto Verstappen's car and straight away he's gone quickest with 34 minutes remaining...

Thanks for that Fil, adding on the action, there are resemblances to FP1 which early on had a few random names at the top. That's like now with Bearman and Hadjar being the top two.

It wasn't until the soft-tyre runs around the 30-minute mark that the usual suspects stamped their mark.

I'm standing at Latifi Corner, which is a good spot to see this generation of F1 cars in anger one last time. Judging from the pulsating beats emanating from the packed yachts lining Yas Marina behind, not everyone shares our interest in FP2.

But we're hearing there has been a last minute surge in interest in this weekend after the events of Las Vegas and Qatar. A lot of fans and VIPs made a late effort to be here for the decider.

And it's dangerous to extrapolate too much from a single corner sequence, but you probably don't need us to tell you the Ferrari looks a handful.

It's been a very busy opening 15 minutes with 19 drivers currently on track. All three compounds are in use as well, mostly the mediums, with Hadjar currently top on the softs.

Norris is fastest of those with the mediums and Hulkenberg on the hards.

Isack Hadjar, Racing Bulls Team

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Verstappen caught out by Norris behind after receiving mixed messages from Lambiase over whether the McLaren was on a fast lap or not.

"What's this guy doing?", was Norris' response. Mind games already started?

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

ICYMI - Exclusive: Lindblad on his F1 graduation and telling Norris 'I would see him in five years'

By graduating to Racing Bulls in 2026, Britain's Arvid Lindblad has delivered on his own childhood vision that he would somehow make it to Formula 1. Speaking exclusively to Autosport, he tells all about his ambition, his Swedish-Indian family heritage and a promise he made to Lando Norris.

And Bearman is now replaced at the top by another driver on the soft tyre which is Hadjar.

It's no surprise that the quickest time is currently set by one of only two drivers on the soft tyre: Bearman with a 1m24.744s.

Ocon is also on softs with the rest on mediums apart from Hulkenberg and Colapintio, who have hard rubber.

The hard tyre was predominantly used in the early stages of FP1, but the medium rubber seems the most popular for this more representative second session. It's already a busy track.

Several drivers in contention for the F1 title going into the season finale? We've been here before... As Lando Norris, Max Verstappen and Oscar Piastri prepare to battle for the 2025 world championship, here’s how it previously panned out...

Who else was in the team principal press conference? Obviously Red Bull's Laurent Mekies with Verstappen also a title contender. But it wasn't all questions about the championship fight, because this week the Austrian outfit announced Hadjar as Verstappen's team-mate for 2026 meaning Tsunoda is without a seat.

On the matter of Tsunoda and his chances of returning to F1, Mekies said: "We have tried everything we could to to support Yuki. At some stage we had to make the difficult call between where we were seeing that going for for the following years. "I hope and I think that Yuki will get another chance. He will be reserve driver with us next year, you never know what's going to happen.

"We have been we have been quite famous in making fairly swift driver decisions in the past. So, look, when I recall one moment at the end of the season 2024, Yuki was was driving very well. It was very difficult for him to digest."

Yuki Tsunoda, Red Bull Racing, Laurent Mekies, Red Bull Racing Team Principal

Photo by: Red Bull Content Pool

McLaren's Zak Brown was also in the Abu Dhabi team boss press conference and he was asked about the prospect of team orders between Lando and Oscar come Sunday.

“In the sense of team orders, as long as both drivers have a chance to win the world championship – which they clearly do sitting here right now – then it's business as usual, they're free to race,” said Brown.

“Obviously we’ll be practical and realistic. If, as the weekend develops, as the race develops, it becomes clear that one has a significantly better chance than another, then we're a team that wants to win the drivers' championship, and we will race accordingly to do whatever we can to get whatever that driver is in front to try and win the race.

“Our team orders have been around giving equal opportunity to win the championship, but as the race plays out, if it becomes clear that both can't, then we're going to do what's in the best interest of the team and try and win the drivers' championship.”

Away from the title picture, it was a strong FP1 for Sauber as Hulkenberg finished fifth with Bortoleto seventh. It will be the final race for the Swiss squad before it becomes the Audi works team next year.

Over to team principal Jonathan Wheatley, who said: "We have Peter Sauber [team founder] with us this weekend. Peter and I get on brilliantly.

"What we want to do is sign off on this incredible journey in Formula 1 for the Sauber name by making him as proud as we can on Sunday and putting to bed respectfully the Sauber legacy as we move forward into becoming the Audi F1 team."

Nico Hulkenberg, Sauber

Photo by: Andy Hone/ LAT Images via Getty Images

No doubt the McLaren driver will be happy to be back for FP2...

This content is blocked by security settings.

Please click on button for showing it.

We all know what's at stake this weekend with Norris, Verstappen and Piastri all fighting for the title.

The Aussie may be on the back foot though after skipping FP1 as part of F1's young driver mandate. Norris and Verstappen were the top two in the relatively uneventful session:

Hello, and welcome to live commentary of second practice for this weekend's Abu Dhabi GP!
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-commentary-and-updates-fp1--1126159/1126160/
DATE: 2025

That's all from us - we'll see you a bit later for FP2, which should be a bit more representative! See you then!

Hirakawa was quickest of the rookie drivers in 11th, Aron 13th, O'Ward 14th, Lindblad 15th, A. Leclerc 16th, Iwasa 17th, Browning 18th, Crawford 19th, Shields 20th.

There's your last FP1 of the year in the history books. Norris is quickest from Verstappen by just 0.008s.

"We are so slow, no? The car feels like it's got zero grip," Charles Leclerc says - as he's told he's not much quicker than the rest of the midfield.

Piastri can't stifle a yawn, and realises he's been caught on camera.

Browning bowls a wide at Turn 1, so its rookies and experienced drivers alike who are finding the run-off.

Hadjar's got a "jumping" car, and at this point I really don't think these drivers will miss the current cars. Like, at all.

Big spin for Leclerc (Charles) at Turn 5, but he's managed to save it and keep going.

"I think Charles is doing some burnouts for the fans," his brother suggests as he follows him into the corner.

"I think there might be something broken on the car," Verstappen reports. "Where are the main issues?" GP replies, who gets the unhelpful response that "it's everywhere".

Everything's infected with brokenness now.

Crawford finally gets a non-hard tyre lap in, doing a lap on the mediums that gets him up to 18th. Browning goes 17th with a lap on softs, 1s off the pace. Leclerc (Jr) moves up to 18th ahead of the two Astons.

15 minutes remain, and our top 10 is Norris, Antonelli, Leclerc (Sr), Antonelli, Hulkenberg, Russell, Bortoleto, Bearman, Sainz, Colapinto.

Bearman is told that Haas will have to retire the car for the session - a sensor is apparently the issue.

Bearman gets up to eighth after his lay-off in the pits. Continued trouble was suspected by Haas, but the Briton keeps going on the mediums.

Norris nips past Verstappen's time, 0.008s up on the Red Bull thus far on those used softs.

There appears to be something on the ground along the start-finish straight. Debris? Water bottle? Crisp packet?

It looks like a can...a silver and blue can, to be precise. Now, if only there was a drinks brand who used such a colour scheme...

Bearman's back out again, but is being told to pit with potentially the same issue as before.

Lindblad is also back on track after Red Bull changed his floor.

Norris goes second quickest, 0.026s behind Verstappen. Verstappen's gone for another tour, 0.021s down on his best effort. Crawford and Shields almost had a moment at Turn 2, as Shields cut off the racing line late.

Meanwhile, more end-of-year radio hilarity: "You have Leclerc Junior at two seconds," Lambiase tells Verstappen. "I find it quite funny you call him junior," comes Verstappen's reply.

Antonelli moves up to third now. Norris aborted his lap on the softs, so he's used it as a prep lap and he's going again - he had a snap at Turn 3.

Russell goes second with a 1m24.733s, 0.24s down on Verstappen's opener on softs, while Hulkenberg moves up to third - also on softs.

Lindblad is in the pits and his (well, Tsunoda's) car is getting some attention from the mechanics.

Verstappen's on softs now, seeing what he can do on a quick lap. He sets a 1m24.493s to go top over Hadjar.

Arthur Leclerc saves his Ferrari from a snap at Turn 12, and brushes the run-off.

Moment of minor hilarity when Russell is told "Owasa" is near him on the circuit. "I think that's O'Ward, not O'Wasa", the Mercedes driver replies.

Hirakawa goes up to ninth on the hard tyre, covering for the lack of running at Haas as Bearman is in the bits. He states that he's got "annoying" bouncing, which is very much the situation with these cars...

Bortoleto goes fastest with a 1m25.398s, on the hard tyre - the circuit is cleaning up.

"The grip is really bad, feels like I'm driving on ice" - Lindblad giving a Verstappen-esque appraisal of an early-weekend Red Bull.

Bearman got back to the pits, ready for his team to inspect the issue at play.

"I've lost power," Bearman reports. There's a leak in the system, so he'll hope he can crawl back to the pitlane.

Hulkenberg goes top with a 1m25.439s, 0.015s up on Norris.

Browning's getting a new radio after the earlier issues, hence why he's not got a timed lap in so far.

Elsewhere in rookie-watch, O'Ward is seventh, Lindblad 13th, Aron 14th, then Hirakawa, Leclerc (A), Iwasa, Crawford, and Shields.

Norris does a fast final sector to set a 1m25.454s, returning to the top. Verstappen's got a good middle sector, and that's second for him.

Sainz goes top on the hard tyre, setting a 1m25.712s. Top four all closely matched at the minute, although this session means basically nothing given the circuit conditions.

Leclerc The Elder moves up to sixth, until Antonelli posts the fastest time of the session and does a 1m25.708s.

A few shuffles at the top; Lindblad was very briefly top of the charts, but Norris throws down a 1m25.764s on the mediums to go top. Hulkenberg just a fraction behind on the same tyre as it stands.

O'Ward then goes up to second on the softs, before Russell nudges ahead of the IndyCar star.

Verstappen sets a 1m27.130s on the hard tyre to go fastest, despite a smidgen of traffic. Shields blocked him a little bit there.

Meanwhile, both Alpine drivers have a wobble out of the final corner, while Browning has a bit of radio trouble and struggled to hear that Hadjar was coming.

Iwasa kicks us off with a 1m29.850s on the hard tyre, beaten by O'Ward's 1m27.398s on the softs. Sainz, Lindblad, and Antonelli also get their first laps in.

The Racing Bulls duo head out first - Hadjar from Iwasa, followed by O'Ward - in Piastri's McLaren for this session.

Lindblad and one of the Leclercs is on the road - Arthur, not Charles!

Not long until FP1 now, and we'll get to see a(nother) glimpse of next year's new rookie driver in Arvid Lindblad.

The rest are seasoned FP1 drivers at this point, bar Cian Shields - but the Scotsman has been doing some TPC running with Aston Martin this year.

Lando Norris, Max Verstappen, and Oscar Piastri were together in the press conference yesterday, to a packed out media room.

Here's how it went down on Thursday:

Eight of the 10 teams still have FP1 rookie quotas to fulfil - they'll check that box in this session, one of the less representative sessions as it's held in the day. Here's the list of FP1 swaps.

McLaren - Pato O'Ward in for Oscar PiastriRed Bull - Arvid Lindblad in for Yuki TsunodaFerrari - Arthur Leclerc in for Lewis HamiltonWilliams - Luke Browning in for Alex AlbonRacing Bulls - Ayumu Iwasa in for Liam LawsonAston Martin - Jak Crawford in for Lance Stroll, Cian Shields in for Fernando AlonsoHaas - Ryo Hirakawa in for Esteban OconAlpine - Paul Aron in for Pierre Gasly

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Hello everyone - and welcome to our live coverage of the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix weekend.

So, we're here. 23 races done, one to go. 12 points separating the top two in the championship, 16 points separating the top three. And it all begins here in FP1!

The Driver World Champion's trophy...who will have their signature etched upon it next?

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images
======
SOURCE: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/live-text/f1-abu-dhabi-gp-live-updates-media-day/1126145/
DATE: 2025

That's all from us this afternoon - join us again tomorrow as we cover off the practice sessions, and assess how the race weekend is shaping up! Thanks for joining, and we'll see you then!

You can stay in touch with everything F1 from Abu Dhabi with the following schedule (all Abu Dhabi local times):

FP1: 13:30, FP2: 17:00SATURDAY

FP3: 14:30, Q: 18:00SUNDAY

Yuki Tsunoda says he was told after Qatar that Red Bull would not be keeping him for 2026; understandably, he was left disappointed by the news that he would not be racing next year.

He says that his Red Bull contract didn't allow him to pursue leads elsewhere, but added that his only regret in moving up to the brand's main team was that he missed out on a "pretty good f***ing car" with Racing Bulls.

"I'm disappointed obviously and pissed off and how I was told was it was right after the race, from Helmut, yeah privately, that I'm not going to race next year so I think that's it.

"But surprisingly I'm okay, I mean not okay but like I'm surviving okay, like the day after, the morning I ordered breakfast as usual, same food," Tsunoda said.

"Probably I'm not recognising enough that it will be the last race for this year or at least for next year so yeah, maybe I'll feel more after Abu Dhabi, but yeah, that's how it went and how I feel now."

On having only one regret: "Probably I was saying that I didn't have any regrets. The only regret I have is missing out that pretty good f***ing car, but also throwing away your kids, your baby, because it's the car that I developed with the team throughout the years since we had this regulation and I'm sure there's my DNA inside as well."

Yuki Tsunoda, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / LAT Images via Getty Images

Lewis Hamilton says that he supported Ferrari's decision to stop development in 2025 and that a dip in performance was anticipated - but it "felt worse" living through it.

Hamilton's demeanour has not been one of great enthusiasm of late as Ferrari's results have dropped away from the other top-four teams, but he says it hasn't taken a long-term toll.

"I mean, it didn't have a psychological effect on me personally. I didn't know at the end of the year we'd be where we are, no. We anticipated it, but it felt worse, naturally," Hamilton said.

"But I was a part of pushing Fred - we can't fall behind the others in terms of that development for the new car, because it's a steep learning curve for all of us. So I supported it 100%.

"I still do. I think it was the right decision. Particularly where we were already with the car, we weren't fighting for a championship."But it's just meant that it's been harder to maintain the performance, at least some of the performance we had at the beginning of the year. I can't answer the question for the rest of the team. I think everyone's stayed really positive in my experience. So I've not seen a psychological effect."

Lewis Hamilton, Ferrari

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Kimi Antonelli opened up on the abuse he received in the wake of the Qatar Grand Prix, as a torrent of horrific social media comments was sent his way following misplaced accusations about losing a place to Lando Norris.

Red Bull's Gianpiero Lambiase suggested to Max Verstappen that Antonelli let Norris through, a statement echoed by advisor Helmut Marko. Both apologised for their comments afterwards.

"It was not easy to get all those kind of comments, after the race, especially for something that I would never do such as waving past a competitor," Antonelli said.

"I was fighting for P3. At the end of the day, I was pushing hard and I was trying to get into the DRS of Sainz.

"After so many laps in dirty air I'm pushing so hard, the mistake arrived, because I obviously every lap I was pushing a bit more and more to get closer and I arrived to the point where the tyre gave up. At that moment I did a mistake and Lando passed me and, you know, then after the race to receive those kind of comments, definitely it hurt.

On Red Bull's apology: "It was nice to see the Red Bull statement, also GP came to talk to me as well and we clarified, I also clarified with Max and that was nice.

"But apart from that, after that I got a lot of support which was nice and definitely also it helped to kind of forget what happened and focus on onto this weekend."

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Norris has done quite a bit of the talking so far in this press conference and, asked if McLaren had discussed the chance of one driver helping the other, both drivers said that this hadn't been part of the team's preparation.

Norris added: "I haven't asked for it and I don't want to ask for it. If I was asked to help Oscar I think I would, because that's just the way I am, but yeah, I haven't asked for it."

Both McLaren drivers have their families at the track, while Verstappen does not - stating that "everything was cancelled after Zandvoort". His father Jos is rallying in Kenya this weekend, and his mother "is at home with the dogs".

Lando Norris, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

The final Thursday press conference of the year - and it's a packed room with questions for Max Verstappen, Lando Norris, and Oscar Piastri.

Norris: "Nothing changes, just some reviews of last weekend, what was clearly not good for us and the mistakes we made, and what we could improve on. but that's normal post-weekend understanding. But nothing does change, for everyone in the team, just more excitement."

Verstappen: "Spent some time with my daughter, figured some stuff for GT3 for next year, sim team planning for next year. Pretty straightforward stuff!"

Piastri: "I wasn't organising GT3 teams! I played some padel, and treated it as normal. Not that many days in between, had a marketing day, so that's been it!"

Speaking in the press conference, both George Russell and Charles Leclerc shared their experiences of the past four years.

Russell spoke about Mercedes' initial difficulties and having to play catch-up, while Leclerc explained that Ferrari's bright start to 2022 was undone by its porpoising.

Russell on Mercedes' 2022-25 fortunes: "I think we started in the wrong place, it lead us down and had to revert. Red Bull had almost a six-month, eight-month headstart while we were trying to work [porpoising] out."

Leclerc on Ferrari's lack of progress from 2022: "I agree, I think for us there are many reasons which played a role. In 2022 we started quite well but had porpoising. Red Bull had a very stable platform but were overweight, and when they took off that weight they were suddenly at the level where they've been since then.

"We focused very early on next year's car which I hope is a bet that it'll be a winning one. For sure it has some influence through the past two-thirds of the season we've been struggling because we didn't bring that many updates. It's been a generation of car that has even very difficult to understand. Bringing parts from the factory I think everyone has been surprised more than once that it doesn't correlate exactly."

Charles Leclerc, Ferrari

Photo by: Clive Mason / Getty Images

Earlier this season, Fernando Alonso stated that he'd celebrate not having to drive this year's AMR25 car - and has his eyes keenly on 2026 when he'll get access to a car influenced by Adrian Newey for the first time.

He says that 2026 might need to be used to "glue everything together" but is confident Aston Martin has the right people on board.

"Yeah, I think we're happy to say bye-bye to this year and obviously we've been not as fast as we were hoping," Alonso said.

"2024 was a tough and and challenging season and 2025 was just the, the big brother of that, so we're struggling and we don't hide from that. It's the last race.

"We want to finish in the best possible position and help the team in the constructors' championship, but yeah, looking forward to next year for sure.

"I mean, the factory is completed, wind tunnel is brand new and completed, and we are using it. We have Adrian Newey, Andy Cowell, Enrico Cardile, we have great people and great talent in the factory, We just need, you know, to put everything in place. There are new facilities, people are just a few months into the system.

"It won't be enough with these few months, so we need one full season to glue everything together."

Fernando Alonso, Aston Martin Racing

Photo by: Zak Mauger / LAT Images via Getty Images

Pierre Gasly admits to being torn - at least, in the moment - on Alpine's decision to sacrifice almost all development in 2025 to progress in 2026, but believes the decision is "for the better".

Alpine has been rooted to the bottom of the constructors' standings, with Gasly having scored all of the team's 22 points. He reckoned that if the team had brought updates, it might have been in the reckoning for a higher constructors' finish, but at the detriment of next year.

"Many times I look at the ranking and I'm like, 'OK, what if we had this on the car, what if we had that..."

"I think what I care about at the end is just making sure that I'm able to provide my best, my best to the team, Because ultimately I want to achieve much bigger things in F1. I just want to know that I'm able to do it whenever the moment comes to me.

"It's always nicer if you can be 6th or 5th or 4th instead of 9th. I must say I'm quite happy that the team took this very aggressive approach, and I think I would have been slightly more annoyed if we would have tried to push the development 2-3 months further to actually get what, 8th, 9th in the championship, and actually affect next year.

"I'm quite optimistic and and confident for next year just based on the sort of decisions we took. It was a rough, eight months and it hasn't been really fun, But I think it's for the better."

Photo by: Sam Bagnall / Sutton Images via Getty Images

Ollie Bearman addressed the abuse that fellow F1 rookie Kimi Antonelli received in the wake of the Qatar Grand Prix, calling those responsible the "scum of the earth".

Antonelli was wrongly accused of moving out of the way of Lando Norris in Qatar by senior Red Bull figures and, although they apologised for their remarks, it was too late to stop the 19-year-old Italian from receiving a deluge of unwarranted abuse.

"Generally it's always the case that people [who abuse others] behind the screen are horrible and they're scum of the earth, really. I don't think they should be doing that type of stuff to someone.

"You know, like, I understand that people who've been in F1 for a very long time can get used to it and people who are rookies, it may be their first experience, you know, having that type of criticism, but that criticism is an absolute joke. It shouldn't be tolerated and I know the FIA are doing everything they can to stop that, but the problem is these sad people giving those types of criticisms. It's a joke, you know.

"We're putting our lives on the line to entertain people and to, you know, give the people who are passionate for the sport a good time and you have people like that who are just hurting people and that's not just racing, that's also their personal life and I just think people are terrible. "

Andrea Kimi Antonelli, Mercedes, Oliver Bearman, Haas F1 Team

Photo by: Dom Gibbons / LAT Images via Getty Images

No rest for the wicked, it seems; Esteban Ocon and Ollie Bearman will be flying to Italy after the Abu Dhabi weekend is over to get their first taste of Haas' 2026 car in the Ferrari simulator.

Haas boss Ayao Komatsu wanted both drivers to maintain focus on 2025, and thus has suggested that both drivers hold fire on trying the new car before the season is over.

"As soon as this is finished, we are flying - both me and Ollie - to the team in Maranello, and we are driving the 2026 car," Ocon explained.

"It was very much a team's decision, not for us to focus on the 26 stuff in terms of driving, in terms of, driving style, technique and everything before this season was finished. Ayao was very clear on that.

"He wanted us to focus completely on this season, which is very important for the team. We've done meetings because we had to in terms of technicality and some stuff that we had to decide very early on with the team. But the work for us is going to really start post Abu Dhabi testing."

On Haas' title partnership with Toyota: "It is great news, Toyota is a brand that I really enjoy working with. I'm not saying that because they are working with us, I really mean it; they have great values, they have great respect, they are passionate about racing.

"They are petrolheads basically, and that's so cool to see when we visited them in Japan, they've put us in on the gravel track, and they've put us in the in the craziest track I've ever seen, on the road, and I've tested the WRC car at Goodwood. It's fantastic honestly to work with them."

Esteban Ocon trying out WRC cars with Takamoto Katsuta

Photo by: Toyota Racing

We've got another bumper crop of younger drivers as the teams look to fill their quota of young drivers (the regular drivers must vacate their seats twice a year in FP1, unless they began the year as a rookie).

McLaren - Pato O'Ward in for Oscar PiastriRed Bull - Arvid Lindblad in for Yuki TsunodaFerrari - Arthur Leclerc in for Lewis HamiltonWilliams - Luke Browning in for Alex AlbonRacing Bulls - Ayumu Iwasa in for Liam LawsonAston Martin - Jak Crawford in for Lance Stroll, Cian Shields in for Fernando AlonsoHaas - Ryo Hirakawa in for Esteban OconAlpine - Paul Aron in for Pierre GaslyMercedes and Sauber have already fulfilled the rules on FP1 drivers.

Arvid Lindblad, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Michael Potts / LAT Images via Getty Images

Alex Albon has heaped praise on his Williams team for delivering a car with which he was able to enjoy his best F1 season. Albon opened the year with fifth place in Australia, and sits ninth in the championship with 73 points.

"I would say my best season yet in many ways I feel like, obviously the car I think it takes credit for most of that," Albon stated.

"I haven't changed so much my application into this year but the car and the, what the guys and girls have done at the factory have made a huge step this year.

"I've been with this team for four years now, and this has been clearly the biggest step out of the four years from year to year. It's been enjoyable, been fun to be able to race against some of the top teams in some certain tracks."

On recent form tailing off: "Towards the end of the year, not ideal, but generally pace has been strong, just either myself, I've made a couple of mistakes - Vegas and Baku kind of stand out to me - but then, the other ones have just not gone my way, just kind of what it was like for Carlos at the beginning of the year."

Alexander Albon, Williams

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Hoping that one of its drivers ends up taking the title, McLaren has made a few colourful addendums to its livery for this year's finale.

McLaren Abu Dhabi GP special livery

Carlos Sainz backed Lando Norris to win this year's F1 title, noting that Abu Dhabi is "a Lando track" and mentioned the Briton's win at the circuit last year.

Norris beat Sainz to the win by 5.5s last season, and will be hoping to close out this year's championship with a similar result.

"I do have an interest obviously and I will be following very closely, closely also I think everyone knows how well I get on with Lando and obviously I wish Lando the best possible outcome in that sense," Sainz remarked.

"I also have a lot of respect for Max and Oscar, and I wish them the best, but I think Abu Dhabi is a Lando track. It's good for him that I think the finale is in Abu Dhabi, which is from my experience being his teammate here is one of his best tracks at driving.

"The win he took last year in front of me still hurts and he dominated last year a race in front of me. It's a Lando track and it's a McLaren track, so I think he, he plays with that advantage.

"Still going into the last weekend, having to finish on the podium is never easy, even if you drive a McLaren and I think he needs to execute a perfect weekend and I believe he, given how well he's responded under pressure recently, I think he can do it."

Lando Norris, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing, Carlos Sainz, Williams

Photo by: Bryn Lennon / Formula 1 via Getty Images

Nico Hulkenberg says he'll be keeping an eye on the screens around the track to follow F1's title battle between Max Verstappen, Lando Norris, and Oscar Piastri.

The German praised Verstappen for his recent form, and reckons his experience in battling for titles will stand the four-time champion in good stead.

"He's had such a good run recently, so strong with no mistakes and just absolutely been been flawless and and killing it," Hulkenberg said.

"He's behind, 12 points is quite a lot, but obviously we know mathematically it's possible and we know crazy things can happen. I think he obviously knows how to fight for a title, and I think pressure is not an issue for him.

"He's got nothing to lose really."

Nico Hulkenberg, Sauber

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Gabriel Bortoleto has had his share of rookie moments over 2025, but he's also been able to prove his worth at Sauber across the season with plenty of impressive moments through the year.

The Brazilian picked Hungary, where he finished sixth, as his best race of the year.

"Main highlights, I can't forget to say Budapest. I think it was so far my best race of the season," he said.

"I think [it was a] great quali - Q3 - and then making a move in lap 1 and then having very good management of the tyres and finishing the race in P6. It was great because I think that was pure pace and, and very enjoyable.

"There were many other races, you know, Austria first points, Monza, Spa - I think they were very good races as well."

Gabriel Bortoleto, Sauber

Photo by: Guido De Bortoli / LAT Images via Getty Images

Some early news from the weekend: Haas has a new title sponsor for 2026. Toyota picks up the title deal from MoneyGram under its Toyota Gazoo Racing motorsport brand - and thus, the team will race as TGR Haas F1 Team next year.

Good morning folks, and welcome to the start of our live coverage of F1's season finale at the Yas Marina Circuit - and we've got a three-way title decider coming our way!

Who's going to win: Norris, Verstappen, or Piastri? It'll be a thrill-a-minute ride on Sunday night.

Lando Norris, McLaren, Oscar Piastri, McLaren, Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing

Photo by: Ahmad AlShehab / NurPhoto via Getty Images
